1/ On Taxis

Or how the world is centralizing all around you, but why you, fellow citizen, have probably not thought about it at all.

(NYC, 2007 below)

2/ We always start at the beginning and the beginning is that architecture of technology matters, even if the average person spends zero time thinking about it.

The technological equivalent of "the medium is the message" is that "you get the society that your IT stack enables" 
3/ Over the last 20 years, three areas have accelerated:

the internet
smart phones
high performance, big data stacks 
4/ It is a truism that internet firms have "power law" outcomes aka the biggest firm in a category is by far the most successful and 3rd and beyond basically don't matter.

Google, Ebay, LinkedIn, YouTube, Amazon, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, NetFlix, IG and so on 
5/ The reason is that "distribution costs" (the cost of distance, the cost of an incremental user logging on) are close to zero online, so, at a first approximation, if you have a 25% better internet service, you don't sign up 25% more people, you sign up *everyone* 
6/ This is very counterintuitive, including to early internet theorists, because the physical world does not work this way.

Distance is a dampener to runaway winners.

If you are a 25% better pizza restaurant but you are 1 hour away, you do not get "all the customers" 
7/ A second concept to keep in mind that databases are by definition centralized.

There is at the end a database administrator with read/write/delete access and that person (or their boss, Board, shareholders, etc) has absolute authority over that database. 
8/ All of the arguments about Twitter and which accounts should be suspended reflect the *technical reality* that ultimately the CEO of Twitter can give instructions to, say, suspend this account.

It is technically feasible and, in the USA, 100% legal. 
9/ Also, a reminder: Since 2009 and the invention of BTC and its successors, humanity has had available to it a decentralized database too.

On public, permissionless blockchains, cryptocurrencies, NOBODY has exclusive read/write/delete access 
10/ Anyway, what does this have to do with taxis?

Usually, when crypto people talk about centralization, it is about the Federal Reserve or Central Bank Digital Currencies and the like.

But money is an emotional topic both for the government and for people 
11/ Governments think about money: "wait, this is how I fund myself, stop crime and smite my enemies"

People think: "I wish I was richer or no way BTC is really worth $25K or my Amex works fine"

And we lose the plot.

So let's go to something unemotional 
12/ From many years, I lived in Manhattan and, as such, was an experienced user of the famous Yellow Cab.

It worked like this:

You stood on the street, raised your hand, jumped in, gave driver $20 cash, jumped out. 
13/ The "hail a taxi" process was fundamentally decentralized and in the public sphere.

Thousands of taxi drivers, millions of riders, dollars in your wallet, using the public sidewalks to hail the the taxi. 
14/ OK, so what?

If the state (or any other party) wanted to stop you from using taxis, what would they have to do?

Well, they would have to arrest you and jail you, the only way to prevent you from walking down the street and raising your hand until someone picks you up. 
15/ Because we are a constitutional democracy arresting and jailing someone is very hard.

You have to have probable cause of a crime, a jury of peers have to judge the crime was committed beyond any reasonable doubt, you have a lawyer to mount a defense and so on. 
16/ The last time I was in New York in 2021, most people were using Uber and Lyft and the Yellow Cabs had their own ride-sharing app.

What is the apps market share now?

Well over 80%!!! - thanks 

17/ Now is there anything nefarious about this? Of course not!

Uber and Lyft are helpful and convenient apps, I have them on my phone, I used them when I was in New York the majority of the time.

The executives at Uber and Lyft have normal corporate objectives I'm sure. 
18/ But let's go back to our example.

What does it take for the state/Uber or anyone else to prevent you from an Uber?

Oh this is very simple - one command to their database, one field changed to "suspended" and then Uber will never stop again for you in New York City 
19/ Did you have to be charged with a crime? go to court? defend yourself with a lawyer?

Of course not, you do not have any of those rights in the private sphere.

you are, strictly speaking, on Uber's property (their servers), not the public streets, when hailing an Uber. 
20/ A flip of a switch and you cannot hail an Uber in New York.

Actually, this is inaccurate, a flip of a switch and you cannot hail an Uber in hundreds of cities in dozens of countries around the world.

"taxi hailing" globally is centralizing into <5 databases. 
21/ Of course, databases don't just do one transaction at a time.

With, about the same amount of effort, Uber could switch off hundreds or thousands or millions of people who met certain factors internally or who were given to them by a 3rd party. 
22/ I would like to ask you to reflect for a moment.

Over the last five years, did you think any of these things to yourself?
Wow, global taxi hailing is rapidly centralizing
or
Wow, global taxi hailing is moving into the corporate (opaque) sphere 
23/ If you are like almost everyone I know, you did not have these thoughts, you did not worry about this, you are not properly sensitivized to what is happening.

The frog (you), is being boiled slowly, distracted by consumer and convenience delights. 
24/ Now, am I being paranoid? Is there an issue today? No, today is still OK.

Today, you can still hail a yellow cab.
Today, Uber executives are just trying to hit their quarterly targets (they want "users", not "suspended users")
Today, it is still ok 
25/ But what I worry about is the trendline.

How far off are we before the yellow cabs can only be hailed by app, "for everyone's safety?"

5 years? 10 years? It is, for sure, not 100 year away. 
26/ And what is concerning is that this is happening in every sphere.

A huge % of internet-based communication and commerce is running through less than 20 companies in the West, for sure less than 100 companies.

And the goal is to replace cash with CBDCs 
27/ It is easy to project out 10 to 20 years and imagine that a digitally enhanced, augmented reality, AI-enabled world, where everything is intermediated by a few dozen corporate and governmental databases.

One consumer step at a time, one "for your safety" step at a time 
28/ OK, so what? Won't life be more convenient and full of "features" this way?

Why, yes, it probably will be more convenient and full of features because those are the fruits of technology.

But, but, but, but centralizing power always has predictable outcomes 
29/ What are the outcomes?

Corporate x2
1. Rent-seeking (aka they will capture some of the networks effects $$$$)
2. Less innovation (they will block competitors)

Political x1
1. Power. Raw unlimited power. The person in control of those databases is a God 
30/ Once the infrastructure is there, even if it was put in place for non-political reasons, it will be immensely appealling to the type of person who wants, needs, must, be President or Prime Minister, who lives and breathes for power.

One day, the systems will be compromised 
31/ And when those all-seeing, all-powerful systems are eventually compromised by a political leader, that person will have more power than any leader in history.

Micro-level insight into everyone's actions, micro-level ability to control what freedoms they have. 
32/ So it is best we preserve some space for freedom, some public commons, some digital lands that are controlled by nobody.

You know the answer, it is crypto, it is NFTs, but just have to figure out how we explain it to everyone else 

1/ Now that the first mints of the Meme Lab are starting, a quick reminder on what the Meme Lab is.

The Meme Lab is an experiment contract for artists who have already dropped a Meme Card.

It is something like how Art Blocks Playground was. 
2/ Like The Memes, the Meme Lab is CC0. Other than that, there are no real rules.

Edition sizes can be tiny or huge.
Prices can be low or high
Distribution plan is up to the artist

What is the art going to be? Who knows? Not me yet. 
3/ I have 3 hypotheses on what might be a success on the Meme Labs.

The first is that I would like to encourage "risky" and "experimental work"

It might safer for an artist to try here vs in their core SR collection for example. It is a "lab" after all. 
2/ The second area I think has potential is 'vertical' ecoystems by artists.

If their card hints at a universe, the Meme Lab could be the place to populate that universe, grow it, show where it could go. 
3/ The third area that I think has potential are cool collaborations among Meme Card artists.

Every week another 3 great artists join the family.

I am sure there are unexplored artistic spaces at the intersection of their skills. 
4/ What do I think is the least promising area?

A random follow-on 'gift' card for their Meme Card collectors.

This generally does not work, unless there is a some twist to it.

But it is a free country, people can do what they think it is best. 
5/ How will allowlists work? Will there be allowlists? Will the mints be public? etc

This is up to the artists.

I am not accepting complaints on this topic.

As the Meme Card Allowlist Research Institute formalizes its work, it can share with artists directly  
6/ What about full horizontal sets? The 1st drops on this contract were to artists & SZN1 full set holders to make this impossible to do.

The set collecting in The Memes can be fun but creates some constraints on edition size etc.

Want to keep this experiment zone more open 
7/ Do the Meme Lab cards have to be memes?

In the narrow sense, of course not. It is an open experiment zone.

In the broad sense, I think all great intersubjective myths, all great social construction, all great art is a meme.

So you know, in that way, sure, why not... 
8/ On airdrops to museum, split of primary and secondary revenue, the Meme Labs are also a full "experiment zone".

The artists can fill in whatever values they want for these variables per drop.

It is another interesting social experiment and what else are we here to do? 
9/ How does relate to The Memes? Does it compete with The Memes?

No, I don't think so. The idea is that The Memes are the catalyst of a broad and expanding open ecosystem to spread the ideas.

First ReMemes, now Meme Lab, then (other things TBD).

There is room for all. 
10/ How do I see this playing out? I think it will start more slowly and with a handful of artists more engaged and then pick up speed over the coming months.

Just like The Memes did.

We can review how we are doing in 2-3 months.

Going to be fun! 

1/ First of all, I love this Meme Card by @macomoroni - what an amazing addition to our pool for ReMemeing.

Watch the sound on; also the 3D model is linked on Arweave.

There is something really interesting with this allowlist, read on below

2/ One thing we learned last week was another way to "game" the AL.

a) if a Meme Card artist becomes known, b) has some low-priced editions, c) it is possibly profitable to buy those editions for the allowlist snapshot of the Card and then sell them 
3/ I do not have some type of "moral" objection to people doing this, but I have a practical objection.

My practical objection is we want to give the long-standing collectors of the artist the chance to mint in peace, not high frequency Meme Card abritragoooooors. 
4/ So we have started keeping an eye out for this now. In one of @macomoroni collections, this appears to have happened, so we:

a) took a snapshot last Sunday (as described)
b) but also a month ago

Only holders in both snapshots made Phase 1, the rest are in Phase 2 
5/ We also airdropped an extra 20 cards to @macomoroni in case there are people he felt deserved a slot but did not get it, so he can distribute/sell manually.

What are the points to take-away from all this, if you are a current or potential Meme card collectors? 
6/ The goal of the allowlist is to not have annoying experiences for everyone - gas wars, botting and so on are not *morally wrong* but they are inconvenient and annoying.

They push everyone else to do annoying things or just "give up"

We don't like that. 
7/ Given this, we might take steps like we did today to reduce the likelihood that people purchase NFTs to "arb" the allowlist.

I believe some people might have paid for an NFT that they did not want in order to get an allowlist spot and now they may not get it. 
8/ This is an important message for us to send. I believe in permissionless blockchains, freedom to transact and not going around telling people what to do.

So you are free to try to "arb" the allowlist and we also free to "de-arb" you right back.  
9/ I can't emphasize this enough, the allowlist is not a right, not a fixed formula, not anything we are bound by.

It is a tool to generate a certain collector experience.

Just like our "counterparties" on-chain are not bound to fixed approaches, neither are we. 
10/ Is it possible that some "innocent" collectors of @macomoroni are getting a worse allowlist allocation vs a theoretically different allowlist.

Yes, allowlists are zero-sum by nature!

But, @macomoroni has some extra to give out and also nobody has the right to an AL spot. 
11/ Are we going to do this every time? Will we catch all the arbing?

No and probably not.

There are diminishing returns to everything - today we showed another part of toolkit.

We will use it, when and as necessary, to remind people it is there. 
12/ As I have said before, people pay too much attention to the allowlist, get over-emotional if 50 cards are ALed differently in one drop vs some theoretical Platonic ideal

I think it does not matter so much

Across all cards, all allowlists (that change), it is broadly fine 
13/ Buy only Meme Cards (and any other NFT) that you like, at prices that you can afford to HODL. The rest is noise.

And then see how you can express your values, your memes of production, in our field and outside our field.

 

1/ On Open Editions

tl;dr - some will work, most will not, collectors will be fine if they approach it with the right mindset, artists need to think through them a bit more carefully.

also, I am generally chill about them. 
2/ Let's start with tradart for a second.

You can buy a Keith Haring 1/1, a Keith Haring limited edition print or a Keith Haring open edition poster.

All are fine, so long as you know what you are getting with each one. 
3/ I have collected both limited editions and posters from the same artist, sometimes in chronological sequence (e.g. a bought a Warhol soup can poster many years before I bought the "real thing"), sometimes simultaneously - I have Haring editions, NFTs, posters. 
4/ My expectations were different from the $ xxx,xxx limited editions than from the $20 poster (or even $200 poster, if you frame it nicely).

I expect that I will care for the limited edition for decades, try to steward it, maybe hand it down, dunno, tbd 
5/ My expectation for the poster is "I will stick up in the kitchen and ideally I won't splatter tomato sauce on it, but if I do, Amazon Prime is just a click away"

It is an unlimited edition poster, you can replace it whenever you want, it is not a Part of Art History. 
6/ Do I have price expectations for the limited edition?

I guess, indirectly, but as with NFTs, I buy physical art that I intend to keep for an indefinite period of time, because it makes me feel nice.

It is a consumption good, not my retirement plan 
7/ Is it nice when the dealer at the gallery says "oh, that limited edition is now 25% more valuable than when you bought it 3 years ago?"

Sure, it is nicer than if he said it was 25% down, but whatever he says, I'm not planning to sell it, so it is just vaguely of interest 
8/ Do I have price expectations for the poster?

OK LOLOLOLOLOLOLOLOL.

Why should an unlimited edition $20 poster be worth anything?

This is not just a consumption good, it is a throw-away consumption good. 
9/ Anyway, on to "open edition NFTs" - noting that most of them are not strictly speaking open editions.

They are time limited open editions with no fixed cap that when the time limit ends, turn to large editions.

Some are free + gas, some are cheap+gas 
10/ As a collector, what should your price expectations be of a very large open edition that you bought for free/cheap+gas?

Come on, are we seriously having this discussion?

You should not even have these expectations of 1/1 art, certainly not open editions. 
11/ In the fullness of time:

a) most large editions will trade down and/or be super illiquid
b) a few will make it because the artist makes it and
c) a few might make it because the artist does all types of fancy game mechanics ("burns" and so on). 
12/ If you are spending $20 to $100 for an edition, just consider it a round of drinks at the bar that you spent because you want the edition in your gallery.

If you buy a lot of them, some may work out, but don't count on it. 
13/ "But the artist made so much money from the edition!"

OK, so what? I am pretty sure all the edition buyers voluntarily spent their money.

If you don't want to collect an open edition, don't do it.

If someone else does, why do you care? 
14/ "but open editions are going to ruin NFTs, bring a bear market, etc, etc"

OK, come on, none of this is true.

NFTs are going to be a $1T+ market across all intangibles.

If a 1/1 artist sells 10/100/500ETH of editions, the impact on the trajectory of NFTs will be zero. 
15/ "6529, do you collect open editions?"

Sometimes, if happen to notice and am near my Trezor.

And if not, I don't worry about it.

They are little snacks, a bar nut, a sole Dorito, it is fine either way. 
16/ OK, how about the artist?

Well, the answer is "it depends" - OE are a tool in the toolkit.

You have to decide if/when/how is the right way to use them.

First of all, I think you can't do them very often, so think if "now" is the right time in your career. 
17/ The fact that many artists are doing their open editions at the same time suggests to me that not everyone is thinking about how it fits into their plans, but possibly acting opportunistically.

Do I have a moral objection? No

But think about your overall career arc a bit. 
18/ Is it ok if you make a lot of money from an open edition? sure!

Can you also expect a lot of degens yelling at you about the floor price of your edition?

also, sure!

As always, it is better if you have some idea of why you are doing what you are doing 
19/ What about burn mechanics, gamification, etc?

I am biased here because I have more ETH than I have time, so all the "move around this to burn that" is a bit burdensome/I basically ignore it.

I think other big collectors feel that way.

But some people enjoy it I think. 
20/ You, the artist, however, if you head down this burn mechanics type path, you might find it burdensome too in the end to manage all this.

So think if you are up for it

Also, depending on your career goals, it probably does not pattern-match with "top artist" trajectories? 
21/ e.g. normal pathway with some experiments, sure, sounds fine.

but offhand, I can't think of many artists who made it into the canon because of their very cool gamification of their art.

BUT also this is a new field so I am sure we will have counter-examples 
22/ Is this "meta" cyclical and will everyone be bored of this in a 1-2 months and then excited about it again at some future point?

Yes, of course. Be prepared for this, as an artist and as a collector. 
23/ Am I upset if an artists from whom we have bought an expensive 1/1, then do an open edition?

LOLOL, of course not. We bought a piece of art from them, not their life. They can do whatever they like.

More artists will "fail" due to lack of exposure than over-exposure. 
24/ Will some artists have some future downturn that will be then blamed very seriously on their open edition?

Sure, this will happen. Most of the time it is not actually the OE to blame, but it is conceivable that poor handling of an OE might hurt 
25/ tl;dr

- Collectors should buy with no expectations

- Artist, as always, should do what they want, but also as usual, some thoughtfulness will probably help in the long-run (but there will always be exceptions to any rule!) 

1/ This week we are going to do one snapshot later today that we will use for the rest of the week.

After the snapshot, we will announce the artists for the week.

Read on for the continuing series of allowlist management in a permissionless blockchain

2/ For most of the history of the The Memes, we announced the artist right before the drop.

This was not due to some giga-brain thinking about allowlist management but because we were scrambling to get ready for the drop date.

We are now more organized, more ahead. 
3/ As we got more ahead, there were logical calls to give everyone more warning, particularly the collectors of the participating artists, so they could prepare, learn how we mint, be available for the drop.

So we started announcing a week in advance 
4/ I think this is generally nice, but it introduced a new dynamic where some people bought artists' editions before the drop, minted and then sold them.

Now I have looked at the data and it is not like this was some huge material issue relative to the project size, but... 
5/ ...a big part of the allowlist process is to save people from unproductive activities.

Paying a lot of gas? Unproductive activity
Allowlist Olympics? Unproductive activity
"Arbing" artist spots? Unproductive activity 
6/ I would like people focused on spreading the mission or, at a minimum, buying art they enjoy to hang on their walls.

Nobody should have any expectations of an allowlist spot (they are just different ways to avoid gas wars) 
7/ But I understand that human nature is what it is and if it is perceived that someone found a shortcut, there is a lot of unnecessary angst.

"Maybe I should have done that?"
"Should I buy a bot?"
"Should I monitor 50 discords to arb artists editions?"

etc 
8/ My actual view is that this angst is anyway a colossal waste of time.

Buy a Meme Card only if you like it, only if you can afford it with no expectation that anyone else will want to buy it from you.

I believe NFTs belong in "entertainment" budget for almost all people. 
9/ Having said all that, if we can reduce "angst", we will take steps to reduce it.

So here is the current logic (I am thinking out loud here, and as always it can and will change at any time) 
10/ We will:
Announce snapshots once a week, usually on Sunday
Announce the week's artists post the snapshot
Increase the number of discretionary pieces the artists receive
Sometimes "roll back" the artist-side snapshot to an earlier block 
11/ Roughly, the goal here is to still give the collectors of the artists time to prepare for the mint, but reduce (not eliminate, but reduce) unproductive pre-mint activities.

Now, there are some caveats. 
12/ "6529, some information leaked, there was already 'gaming' action in artist's X editions. You should make them sign NDAs, etc"

We reserve the right to do an earlier snapshot for an artist if we think it warrants it, but NDAs give me a break, we are the "freedom" team. 
13/ "6529, there was 'gaming' action in an artists' editions but you did not do anything about it"

"We reserve the right to do it" does not mean we will do it.

We might not consider it meaningful, we might be too busy to do it, etc 
14/ As with all things in life and all things in this project, "roughly right, 80% correct" is all that is practically achievable before you are wasting time on things that don't actually matter.

One great thing about The Memes is that there are many cards, many artists 
15/ So if 10% of 1 mint of hundreds of artists over the years are not "ideal to your liking", well, it does not actually matter at all in my opinion?

Who cares? Why is it that important to you? 
16/ More broadly, if you are so emotionally invested in the allowlist mechanics, 100x more emotionally invested than we are, I think you should probably sell your cards.

We are trying to gather a group of people interested in decentralization, interested in art. 
17/ I am not trying to gather the world's most obsessive allowlist connoisseurs.

"But 6529, then I will sell my cards and the floor price will drop"

Thank you, that is helpful, makes a more accessible entry point for someone else more aligned with the project mission. 
18/ "6529, you don't want feedback?"

Of course I want feedback, that is why I go into Discord every week to get yelled at. 

What I don't want is people to be emotionally invested in irrelevant things. 
19/ "hey, consider this for next drop" = ok!

"you are really bad at allowlist management, I am going to sell because I am furious" = also ok, selling is the right move here - both of us will be happier! 
20/ Next complaint:

"The rollback is unfair, I bought the artists's editions yesterday, now I am left out"

Same thing applies. You did not buy the artist's edition in expectation of an allowlist spot, b/c theoretically you did not know about the Meme Card, right? 
21/ No Meme Card hodler should have an expectation of an allowlist spot; for the same reason, no artist hodler should have an expectation of an allowlist spot.

Also, the increased discretionary artist cards can be used for cases the artist thinks are worthy. 
22/ Hope this all makes sense.

We have an awesome set of art teed up for this week and I am really looking forward to it!! 

1/ On The Memes prices

Since a lot of people are pinging me, a public reply for efficiency.

First, I have no idea what the right price is for a Meme Card and I do my very best not to think about it.

The mission will work fine at any price point I think 
2/ In general, I don't know what the price of stocks, bonds, bitcoin, eth, punks, xcopy, ringers, fidenzas, nouns, toadz, mfers, pepes or anything else will be from day to day

Only thing I know for sure is that the price of NFTs is very volatile and will go up and down a lot 
3/ In general my advice to NFT enjoyooors is to:

a) only buy what you love
b) that you are willing to hold for a long time
c) in quantities that you can afford stress-free
d) even if price does the exact opposite from what you hope, as it often does in crypto
e) don't lever up 
4/ As it relates to the Meme Cards, my same advice holds PLUS there are many other ways to enjoy them so it should be even less stressful and fun

a) lots of Memes Cards inbound +
b) lots of ReMemes +
c) some direct copies of the Meme Cards +
d) you can mint/ReMeme yourself 
5/ What about accessibility to The Memes?

You can expect some higher edition counts in SZN2 that can provide accesible entry points, like we did in SZN1
ReMemes
Meme Labs will take start to pick up in SZN2 and should also be accessible

I think it will be ok 
6/ Don't FOMO, don't cope, don't worry about what "profits" you made or did not make.

All counterfactuals are imaginary.

You have no idea what you would have done in your alternative timeline.

Always live your life starting with today. 
7/ We are going to be at this for a long time

There will be lots of great JPGs during that time, don't worry about that part

My only preference is that you interact with memes ecosystem in a stress-free way for you, so you can:

Have Fun Repping Decentralization 
8/ When i say I have no idea about the price of Meme Cards, I really don't know. a personal story.

early in the fall, we had a deca contest for the 6529 museum and first prize was a naka which was about 0.9ETH at the time.

i wisely hedged my risk and bought 1 
9/ By the time the contest ended, the naka price was 4ETH so I felt very smart at operational hedging.

fast fwd to when i requested some help on NFTDelegation and said I would give a SGT Pepe to the most helpful. 
10/ SGT Pepe was 3 ETH when I said that and despite my highly successful hedging the other time, I thought "nah, no need to do it this time, it is fine"

fast fwd to a few days ago, list was 8ETH, last trade 7.5ETH, was offered 7ETH OTC and said "nah, will WETH bid at 6ETH" 
12/ So NFT investing expert, punk 6529, on his own project:

failed to buy at 3ETH in order to fail to buy at 7ETH in order to now probably capitulate at 12ETH, at which point, price will probably drop to complete my cycle of trading shame on this one. 
13/ This is a long-winded way of saying I have never ever ever given buying or selling advice in NFTs and I am certainly not going to start now.

I am a "buy, forget, and hodler" in life in general, and in NFTs, and trading stresses me out so I don't do it 
13/ The Meme Cards will continue to primary mint at 0.06529ETH because that is the cost of a nice dinner, a nice weekend away, a piece of household furniture, something that can come out of (most) people's consumption/entertainment budget. 
14/ A data point for those concerned it is whales only now.

Only 14 addresses have spent more than 50ETH buying Meme Cards in the secondary market.

So I dunno, that is like an hour's worth of activity in PFP land.

It is ok, most people are not whale holders. 
15/ tl;dr

the project mission is decentralization
there will be lots of primary mints + ReMemes + Meme Labs + CC0
it's a big tent - sure, naka-buying are welcome, but everyone is welcome, anywhere in the ecosystem, whether they buy a card or not
secondary = volatile 

1/ What is the point of Meme Cards?

The point is that people think in stories, think in visual shorthand, think in brands, in intersubjective myths, in memes.

I (we) believe in many complex ideas about self-sovereignty and centralization. 
2/ I write very long threads to explain those ideas.

They are pretty complex and hard to find on twitter. I those who read those, but it won't be many in the scheme of things

The same thing goes for the @unicmetaverse course

Great for the dedicated! 
3/ We need these ideas to break out of XXX,XXX people here on NFT twitter.

They cannot break out in complex tweetstorm form.

Presidents get elected with "Yes, we can" and "Make American Great" not with "here is my nerdy 69 tweet tweetstorm" 
4/ Nike sells us lots of shoes with "Just Do It" and a swoosh.

The Memes are an attempt to distill those ideas into a format that can spread to millions, tens of millions and hundreds of millions. 
5/ The reason they are CC0 is to enable this.

I fully expect "ReMemes" to have 10x, then 100x, then 1,000x the reach of The Memes over time.

Victory will be when people are making Freedom To Transact items without even knowing about The Memes 
6/ The reason The Memes have many artists is because different people respond to different art.

If we keep passing these messages through the most talented artists of our field, is that eventually I think there will be Meme Card art that resonates with everyone. 
7/So steal The Memes, use them, build with them, try many different things.

The more shots we take on goal, the more likely we find the model that makes an impact, that is discussed in Washington, in Brussels, on TV, across the world.

Go get them 

1/ Card #4 from SZN #2 ("Summer is coming") is a wonderful card in the signature @Xose_Casal style.

The drop this time is in the xcopy meme card style model (2-phase) to manage gas a bit - see details in the next tweet.

Also the edition is a bit larger which should help.

2/ There is concern that the recent drops are being botted, which in this context means the following:

a) Anyone on the allowlist is on the allowlist because they made the allowlist

b) they have been limited to 1 mint per address

these are not bot sweeps 
3/ What is happening however is some people on the allowlist are using a "bot" to mint directly from the contract.

This raises the gas cost for everyone else as they try to compete and sometimes people can't make it in time.

Left unchecked everyone will 'have' to do this 
4/ The 2-stage drop should make this better.

In the first phase 930 addresses were allowlisted vs 750 available-to-mint cards.

Given that many people don't manage to mint anyway, our guess is that phase 1 will *not* sell out. 
5/ Or even if it does sell out, it should not be a manic rush to mint first (I think).

Then whatever is left after phase 1 will be available to the next 750 allowlist members.

Here, depending on how many are left, there might be a bit of a gas "war" 
6/ Once we figure out the right ratio in phase 1 (allowlist to available cards), we should be able to eliminate, on every drop, any high gas for most (say 80%) of participants, which is pretty good.

So 2 levels of protection: AL and phasing 
7/ Of course, and I say this with love, none of these are gas wars like we knew from Art Blocks drops, circa 2021 - when bots would sweep hundreds of pieces and gas on primary and early secondary was WILD

These are "gas skirmishes" lets say 
8/ Having said that, since Day 1 we thought gas wars are wasted resources and the structure of how we do drops is to eliminate this wastage.

It is an ongoing gaming/anti-gaming process and we will keep fine-tuning until it is broadly solved. 
9/ So let's see how today goes. I encourage everyone in any case:

 Not to draw "permanent" conclusions based on a couple of drops. It is a constant iteration process

Not to spend more gas than they can afford (allowlist is an option to mint, not an obligation)

have fun! 
10/ OK, two phase system worked. Almost all minted out in Phase 1 in peace, with no need to fight on gas and frisky on the few remaining in Phase 2

This will be model going forward - depending on how well we guess phase 1 allocation, we should allow 70% to 90% minted peacefully 

1/ The Meme Labs contract is live with the first mint by @6529er

Reminder: The Meme Labs contract is an experiment zone for Meme Card artists to do (or not do) whatever they like.

The 1st NFT is an edition of 39 for the SZN Meme Card artists (transfers coming manually)

2/ As @6529er said, without the artists, there is no SZN1, so THANK YOU



3/ A reminder, The Meme Labs are a "no rules apply" experiment zone.

Style, edition size, goal, distribution plan, price, primary/secondary royalty revenue share with the project and *every other parameter* is 100% up to the artists, individually or in collabs. 
4/ I expect it is going to take some time for this contract to warm up, for the artists and all of us to learn what works.

I hope there are big successes and also *duds*.

Why duds? because if there are no duds, we are not taking enough risk in trying new ideas here. 
5/ I can't emphasize this enough - The Meme Cards have a certain approach in terms of card style, edition size and so on.

The Meme Labs are an opportunity to try other things and some of them might be great and some of them might not be.

It is all good. 
6/ Meme Card holders, you should never have airdrop or allowlist expectations for the Meme Cards but you *really* should not have them for The Meme Labs.

An artist can decide to do a 1/1 her or an open edition or anything in-between and you are *not* allowed to complain  
7/ Also, "full set collector" types, I think it is going to be pointless/impossible to put one together on The Meme Labs

In fact, we deliberately made the first card a drop to the SZN1 artists to emphasize this point early

This is a no-stress, fun-only, experiment-only zone 
8/ What is next in The Meme Labs

 Some artists are preparing drops

 @6529er is prepping the cards for the SZN1 holders and full set holders (snapshot already taken)

I think Q2 will be mostly Memes and ReMemes. Meme Labs will be finding its way at first 
9/ For the eagle-eyed who remember we also said there was an ERC-721 coming for artists, so they can become composable, well we will do that to and it is not this card.

This card was simply our "thank you" to the SZN1 artists so, once again, "thank you" 
10/ Update: the piece is CC0 

1/ On CC0 NFTs (again)

I think (hope) a relatively brief and non-exhaustive thread and practical thread but we will see.

CC0 is shorthand for the Creative Commons 0 license, a license that aims to allow authors of copyrightable work to place it in the public domain 
2/ Before we discuss CC0, I would like to reemphasize that I am NOT saying all art should be CC0.

In fact 99.9999999% of all art is released on traditional copyright terms.

That is completely fine, I collect a ton of it. Licensing is just a tool that people can choose to use. 
3/ What is the "traditional" mode in copyright?

tl;dr

In the United States, the author of a work (book, art, etc) made after 1978 has the exclusive copyright for their life plus 70 years.

After that, the work goes into the public domain. 
4/ Some older works that were under an older copyright system entered the public domain earlier.

For example, this year all work from 1927 will enter the public domain.

Copyright life has been extended over the years due to corporate lobbying (Disney played a big role) 
5/ What is the theory behind copyright?

Copyright was designed for social good - the theory was that if authors had an period of exclusivity to use or monetize their work as they like, the work would be more valuable to them, so they would create more of it = good for society 
6/ In other words, copyright is a law to encourage more creative output, under a very specific set of assumptions, that for most people the ability to manage exclusive use of their work, will make it more appealing to create it in the first place 
7/ In time, all work enters the public domain.

The theory here is that all culture is built on other culture (even initially copyrighted work) and at some point people should be able to build freely on it.

Right now, everything from 1927 and before is in the public domain 
8/ So if you go to museums, most of the most famous works are already in the public domain.

Van Gogh's descendants cannot stop you from using Starry Night anyway you want, including as a direct copy of it.

And outside of many museums, you can buy close-to-perfect replicas 
9/ I should note that for some authors, just as important as the monetary aspects of copyright, is the right to control what is done with their art.

A piece of art might be made for a certain reason / presentation and, as long as they are alive (+70 years), they can control this 
10/ Now there are tons of nuances - what is the right term for copyright, what is copyrightable, what is "fair use" of copyrighted work, how does licensing work and so on.

I am not going to handle these today. 
11/ These topics were covered in great detail on @unicmetaverse with @eliana_esq, archived now on Arweave


12/ I would like to focus today on something very specific: CC0 digital art, as implemented with NFTs.

I continue to find these to be fascinating and in particularly I think they present a new "design space" vs what we could do before NFTs. 
13/ Imagine you made a piece of CC0 digital art before NFTs.

e.g. you go on twitter, make a piece of art, renounce your rights and make it available to the world?

what would happen? ultiple copies of the art, all in the exact same level of hierarchy, all "original"/"fake" 
14/ Imagine instead the same approach but with a CC0 NFT.

The art can be copied infinitely but everyone knows which token was the original, who minted it and who currently owns that token in their wallet. 
15/ This is summer.jpg a piece of art auctioned by @XCOPYART in summer 2021. I bought it, later @XCOPYART put all his work in the public domain.

You can freely copy it, you can mint new tokens with it and so on.

But which token was minted, bought, owned is clear forever

16/ One question I get a lot is "but what do you own when you own a CC0 NFT?"

This is the usual "gotcha" that the collector is somehow being tricked here.

Weird that anticrypto people want to protect me, wealthy collector, from wasting my money but it is a common question. 
17/ I usually answer w/these two questions:

a) what do you own when you buy a copyrighted work of art (e.g. a painting by basquait)?

b) what do you own if you own a classic work of art (a Van Gogh) in public domain?

Inexperienced people think some type of IP, but this is wrong 
18/ In the first case, the author (or estate) owns the copyright and can do whatever they want with it and you, owner, can do nothing other than display it for personal use.

In the second case, the public owns the intellectual property and can do use it without buying the art. 
19/ The next step usually is "but I own a physical work, created by the artist themselves"

People tend to index here on the "physical work" part; but very very good fakes are very common in the art world and are worth zero if discovered. 
20/ The part that has value is the second part of the sentence, the "created by the artist themselves"

What you are buying is provenance, authenticity.

It is why a copy of Harry Potter is worth $10, but hand-signed by the author, it is worth much more. 
21/ With NFTs, we have moved the question of provenance from "having experts look at the paintstrokes with a microscope to see if they are authentic" to "check the chain to see who minted the NFT"

And just like with all other creative matters, provenance is everything. 
22/ The specific approach in NFTs was in some way invented by @cathsimard_ and @gmoneyNFT when he bought "Free Hawaii" and upon purchase she released the rights on a permissive license

I like this approach/this mental model

23/ This is the mental model I have for the Meme Cards, specifically:

a) the primary minters pay the artist to release the art into the public domain (CC0)

b) after the mint, the primary minters have provenance of the art and the global cultural commons is a bit richer 
24/ In a way, as a collector/primary minter of a CC0 work, you get an little bit of an extra boost

One "criticism" of fine art is "rich people spending lots of money for their personal enjoyment when there are real problems in the world"

In the case of CC0, it's a bit different 
25/ You are not only paying money to have a piece of art for yourselves.

You are also contributing (economically) so that art is contributed to the global cultural commons *now*, not 100 or 150 years from now.

You have made the world a bit richer, not just yourself 
26/ I would like to reemphasize that there is no pressure on artists to release work this way.

Every artist should approach their work, deciding what is right for that work, at that time, with the broad set of tools at their disposal 
27/ What are good reasons for art to be released on traditional copyright models?

 You care about how it is presented
 You have specific monetization plans for it
 You want to wait and see (you can always have more permissive terms later) 
28/ What are good reasons for art to be released on CC0 terms?

 You want your art to be part of the global cultural commons now

 You want people to remix/reuse it *while you are still alive* (more on this in the next tweet) 
29/ Eventually all art ends up in the public domain with no exceptions.

As an artist, an interesting question is if seeing it remixed brings you pain or brings you joy.

Your views on this probably play into if you would like to be alive to see this or not 
30/ Another thing to keep in mind is that nobody has to take an across-the-board view on how to license their art.

You could choose per piece, per project, per collection, what to do.

For artists, it is just a tool, nothing more. 
31/ "What about the theory that CC0 art will spread more and make art/artist more famous/valuable"

While I think this is true in some cases, I will NOT say this because 99.99999% of art will not become famous or important or monetizable whatever the licensing model 
32/ So I do not want artists to say "I do not want my art to be CC0 but I want to make more money so I will do it" and then be disappointed in the almost certainly true case that they will not make a lot of money.

For every @XCOPYART there are thousands of unknown artists 
33/ Attention and artistic importance follows "power laws" - the most important work becomes extremely valuable and there is a long-tail of work that is only appreciated by a small group.

The licensing model CANNOT change this. 
34/ Licensing models are not a panacea - whatever the licensing model, most art will not become economically important (it can still be psychologically important for the artist and collector)

So choose your licensing model for other reasons - based on what brings you joy. 
35/ Also, collectors should not particularly care either way for the same reasons.

Every collector should buy what they like, buy what art/licensing brings them joy.

Should not pressure anyone to do anything! 
36/ In any case, I hope this helps some people - I also wanted it online to share with people who find CC0 NFTs confusing.

And they can rest assured that me, collector, am not getting tricked by cunning CC0 artists  

1/ On The Digital Rights Charter

The fundamental premise of 6529 is that the same constitutional rights that exist in the physical world should apply in the digital world.

It is a premise that constitutional democracies are good, even when we use computers. 
2/ One step back first - I think one fundamental disconnection with many people is that the digital world does not feel "real"

"You cannot own personal possesions - they have to be held at a custodian, for [your safety]" triggers obvious alarm bells. 
3/ Similar things are proposed for digital objects like NFTs on a regular basis and are the subject of polite discussion (not alarm) among lawmakers.

But the digital world is very real; it is where many spend most of their days and soon it will envelop *everything* 
4/ A world where you are free to own a house and a car and a painting; where you are free to print a poster with your political views; where you are free to discuss with someone privately in your home, BUT all those rights go away as soon as you touch a computer is a dystopia 
5/ One response I see is "lets return to the ways of our forefathers and walk away from technology"

This is dumb & defeatist. The 4th industrial revolution is going to give god-like powers to people who use technology.

They need to be under the same constitutional umbrella 
6/ In any case, this is all well and good, but what does this mean in practice?

Everyone here agrees that "you should be able to own an NFT in your ETH wallet"

But how can we communicate this to people outside our world at a conceptual level? 
7/ A few months ago, I made a draft of how I thought about this and I have shared it with various people privately who helped improve it.

I am going to share it with everyone publicly today in this thread in order to gather broader feedback 
8/ After a few days of feedback, we can call it a final v1.0 and I will put it on a website

hopefully with some ways to "sign" it, share it and so on.

And then we share outside our world and see their feedback too. 
9/ I will post it in parts here so we can have a discussion on specific articles here on twitter.

we start by doing a little pre-ambling, on the topics mentioned above

10/ Then we go to the Digital Rights themselves

This one will look familiar to our American readers

"1.Everyone has the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness in the digital realm. " 
11/ Right to personal ownership

"2. Everyone has the right to own, and hold in their own direct possession and control, digital objects, without unreasonable burdens." 
12/ Freedom to Transact

"3. Everyone has the right to be free to transact those digital objects, without unreasonable burdens." 
13/ This should also look familiar

"4. Everyone has the right to be secure against unreasonable searches and seizures of their digital objects and no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation,... 
14/ #4 continued

"... and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized." 
15/ This is a new one for open-source

"5. Everyone has the right to participate in the creation and maintenance of digital public commons, such as open-source software and public blockchains,..." 
16/ #5 continued

"...and that nobody is held responsible for the actions of others in a digital public common that are not under their control."

We have invented some new things since the 18th century, we might want to cover them 
17/ An explicit right to privacy

"6. Everyone has the right to privacy, including the use of encryption, in their digital life." 
18/ #7 - Non Discrimination

"Everyone has the right to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner regardless of sex, race, color, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or other belief, political opinion..." 
19/ #7 (continued)

"...membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age, gender or sexual orientation."

If there is one thing that the digital world can do well, it is this! 
20/ #8 is a new one and it is as follows. We should be in favor of people owning their data and applications that let people own their data (on a blockchain) should be praised. It is the other ones that should have a regulatory burden 
21/ #8

"8. Everyone has the right to exit from any digital service by claiming their personal digital data. Digital services that utilize data held on a public blockchain are presumed compliant with this clause..." 
22/ #8

"...Digital services that hold data in a proprietary database must make their data available for export in common formats, in reasonable timeframes, using reasonable methods." 
23/#9 - This should be familiar

"9. Everyone has the right to speak, assemble, practice their religion, conduct scientific and academic research, and petition the government in the digital realm." 
24/ #10 - We should be able to contract online

"10. Everyone has the right to define contractual rights in the digital realm and allow exercise of those rights in a personal or automated manner." 
25/ #11- No collective punishment - you have to charge individual people with specific crimes

"Everyone is free from collective punishment in the digital realm." 
26/ Anonymity / pseudonymity

"12. Everyone has the right to act in the digital space through anonymous identities, pseudonymous identities and/or software agents, so long as each person maintains personal responsibility for the actions of all their identities and agents." 
27/ #13 is the normal stuff. We fully accept that there might be a state need for various reasons to abridge these rights.

But it needs to follow due process, with a presumption of innocence 
27/ #13

"13. The rights enumerated above cannot be abridged, except for legitimate state needs, following proportional due process procedures, with the right to self-defense and a presumption of innocence..." 
28/ #13

"..National security exceptions to the above should be time- and scope-limited and supervised by a relevant competent court. In no case should national security exemptions be applied to collective societal restrictions of digital rights." 
29/ #14

"14. Everyone has the obligation to comply with the relevant laws and regulations of their respective state and community, in a manner consistent with the rights enumerated above, and to respect the rights of others to conduct their digital lives peacefully." 
30/ What does it mean to sign this? I dunno, something like this I think

31/ Finally, here it is as a Google doc


Digital Rights Charter vCommunity Feedback
The Global Digital Rights Charter Community Feedback Version. Will be put live on www.digitalrightscharter.org later in January hold that it is self-evident that: peoples inalienable
32/ So, what comes next?

Community feedback and then we will publish.

What if you disagree with the published version?

No problem, take what you want from this and use it as you wish.

We are all in this together, we can try different approachs 

1/ A few interesting things today with Meme Card 3 of SZN 2 by @ArturFalco3.

It is our first Vitalik (!), there is a cool AR experience built in and there is sooooo much detail.

"Crypto Daydreams" is all memes, all the time - zoom in and take a look!

2/ Watch @6529er turn on the AR in this video (and direct all customer support questions to him please)


3/ Mint is scheduled for 11am ET as usual at the usual place:

http://thememes.6529.io
4/ Here is the card in all its glory

5/ And @ArturFalco3 joins the Meme Artists twitter list here - follow it if you like

1/ "Survive in Virtuality" by @kartjust is SZN2, Card 2 and is the first card of our new winter theme:"Survive"

2/ Mint will be half an hour later than usual because of another big mint happening at the same time

thememes.6529.io


http://thememes.6529.io
3/ Survive? Yes, just survive!

1/ We are starting SZN2 (Winter) of The Memes today with the Queen of Winter @cathsimard_

For those who don't know her, @cathsimard_ goes to all types of very cold and very high places, takes beautiful photographs and puts them together in amazing ways

2/ If everything goes well, the allowlist minting will be live in approximately 1 hour and 45 minutes (11am ET).

thememes.6529.io

(The airdrops have already been done). 

https://thememes.6529.io/
3/ The size of the edition is 1337. Our general view is that SZN2 will be a bit larger, on the whole, than SZN1 in terms of the typical edition and the smallest edition.

Now, what that means exactly, we dunno. e.g. SZN1 started with an edition of 1,000, but w/ 3 Genesis cards 
4/ The allowlist model for this genesis drop of SZN2 is like the past - @cathsimard_ collectors and Meme Card collectors are ALed.

It is overallocated, but it is also a large edition and it is a holiday so hopefully that will balance out.

We will see. 
5/ We hope that within Jan we'll have more granular tooling on allowlist slots by cohort

This should allow us to end any risk of gas wars forever

We did not have time to test over the holidays. When we are sure it is right, we will roll it out.

Until then, the existing model 
6/ "How do you think about SZN1 holders vs new SZN2 holders?"

I think both are important. We will have, soon, a relatively open edition that anyone can join in SZN2.

I think thinking about other similar projects is useful to guess how it works out 
7/ In other words, Squiggles were in SZN1 of Art Blocks Curated and they are pretty popular still 

But Ringers and Fidenzas and Gazers and many more came later and they are also great.

So I would not worry about it too much. 
8/ My general advice to 99% of people is:

 Only buy Meme Cards that speak to you
 In quantities / prices you can afford
 With no further expectations from the card

And they are CC0 so you can always "steal" any card you want 
9/ I know there are some people chasing "full sets" - about 135 of the 5,000+ holders.

That is fine, it can be fun, but it is an expensive proposition, not at all suitable for most - we will tip our hat to those who do it, but it is not the project goal 
10/ "Will XYZ card get me an allowlist spot?"

I do not know and do not care. Nobody has the "right" to an allowlist spot.

The purpose of the allowlist is to not let multiminters crash the party and ruin it for everyone else 
11/ Beyond "blocking multiminters", we don't have any particular views of who should be allowed an allowlist spot.

We reserve the right to change allowlist policy in any way, at any time.

We constantly change it so people realize this 
12/ In other words, our view is:

You buy a card and you own that card and that is it
If you want another card, you can buy in the secondary market
If you want the art, you can always take it for free

There is no "right" to be able to primary mint. 
13/ Now back to the main project goal: expose a broad set of people, ultimately millions and tens of millions, to powerful art, in the service of decentralization.

I have all the time in the world for anything that moves THIS goal forward!!! 
14/ And then the goal further to the above is to drive social change.

If we are building a form of "network state", the goal is to demonstrate how to live with decentralized systems.

We are 0.01% of the way there, but it is going to be a great journey 
15/Along the way, I want us to have fun and create other positive externalities.

The secondary goals are:
Expose great artists to more people
Encourage creativity/remixing
Release tooling for all in NFT community to use (e.g. the delegation code/contract) 
16/ With all that said, let's welcome @cathsimard_ to The Memes!

I could not be more excited to kick of SZN2!
 

1/ I bought another QQL Mintpass for @6529Museum

Museum bought 3 initially, used 1, was down to 2 and now got another one.

I will mint it by January 15th, so post ideas below. I will pay up to 1ETH for a seed, but also might use one of my seeds.

2/ I think generally QQL (by @tylerxhobbs) is a lovely project but also we need to pick up the pace of minting.

Only 160 of the 1,000 mintpasses have been minted and that is not enough to fully enjoy the collection

Background: The museum's mint so far was #73 (lemons)

3/ The @6529capital funds mints so far were #72

4/ #86

5/ #97

6/ #139

7/ #24

8/ So share interesting seed ideas below and, in any case, I will mint a QQL in the next couple of weeks! 

1/ On Collectors

tl;dr

Artists or Projects or "Creators" (fill in whatever term you like) need all types of collectors and should be relaxed about policing collector behavior.

Some thoughts for and from The Memes 
2/ I am constantly asked in The Memes discord which type of collector is most important.

SZN1 Full Set Holders?
Someone who holds X cards?
What about broad distribution?
What about flippooooors?

My general answer is that it is all fine, each plays a role 
3/ As always, the goal of The Memes is to spread pro-decentralization messages so generally we will aim for broader distribution.

That is why the collection is relatively large and it is CC0 so it can spread further.

My comments should be viewed in that context 
4/ My general view about collectors is:

 Welcome them in all types
 Different people will engage in different ways
 Don't try to over-engineer it 
5/ Collector Type 1: The Nibbler

They buy one piece. They check the box, they do not engage further.

Fantastic! Another person who feels emotional value from your work. Another person who might tell a friend.

You should be happy to have them 
6/ Collector Type 2: The Flipoor

They fight for an allowlist, mint & 17 seconds later are listing it for 0.05 ETH more.

They attract a lot of collector hate but "why?"

They are making a market in the piece - someone who wants the piece more can buy it from them. 
7/ Collector Type 3: The OG

They have been here since "Day 1"

This can be great, they can be stewards of community values.

But also we should accept n00bs. I bought this punk 4 years after it minted. I bought a Warhol 40 years post "mint" 
8/ Collector Type 4: The HODLer

They buy, send to cold storage and won't be selling any time soon.

This is kindof how I am, so I get it, I like this model.

It is good for artists to have some long-term HODLers like this. 
9/ Collector Type 5: The Set Collectoooor

I get this too. I like collecting all the art blocks. some people like collecting all the memes.

it is always a very small group relative to the whole because it gets expensive

this is ok if it is fun, just don't get stressed 
10/ Collector Type 6: The Buidloooor

This applies in CC0 or commercial rights collectors.
Buidlers use the ecosystem of a collection to bootstrap "something"

This is great and usually only helps. 
11/ Collector Type 7: The Super-Fan

This person is out there retweeting the artist, telling others about the artist, helping them find new opportunities.

Again, this is generally lovely. 
12/ Collector Type 8: The Derivativooor

They are making derivatives! They are selling derivatives! They are being funny or snarky!

This is great. All culture is built on a prior common culture. Be cool about it! 
13/ So all together:

Nibbler
Flipper
OG
HODLer
Set Maker
Buidler
Super-Fan
Derivative

Also, people sometimes switch. I start as a nibbler usually

My advice to artists is to embrace all types and enjoy the small or large community that forms around your work 

how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

foodie, art appreciator 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

crypto appreciator, art appreciator 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

economics appreciator, art appreciator 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

travel appreciator, art appreciator 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

fitness appreciator, art appreciator 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

wellness/health appreciator, art appreciator 
how would you describe your eating philosophy? 
what is the most important driver of your eating choices? 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

fashion appreciator, art appreciator 
if someone gave you $2,500 completely unexpected and you could not spend it on daily needs and HAD to choose one and only one of the below to spend it, what do you choose? 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

car appreciator, art appreciator 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

politics appreciator, art appreciator 
how would you describe yourself, as related to the average person, on the dimensions of:

sports appreciator, art appreciator 
OK this is all for this flash survey.

results will be interesting for all to see.

this is more a self-perception series than a quantitative series

 

1/ Memeception

This thread is theoretically about yesterday's announcement, but it is not really

It is more conceptual.

Why seasons? Why Festivities? What does this all mean, if anything? 
2/Let's start at the beginning. From the beginning, we wanted The Meme Cards to run in seasons.

This was directly inspired from the Pepe Series and the Art Blocks Series.

We thought (and still do) seasons would bring provenance and closure 
3/ The Memes are art with a social message.

We also thought the seasons would give us an opportunity to change the messages (the memes) from season to season, to adapt to new circumstances

We still believe this! 
4/ What we got wrong at the beginning was the logistics.

We said SZN1 will be 8 memes x 10 cards for each meme = 80 cards.

Also though, artists come first, artists drive the cards, artists make all the final decisions. 
5/ So what we realized a few months in was:

 some Memes were more popular than others with artists

 there is no fixed schedule on when the art would be ready. Some artists took one shot and were done in days, others were busy for months, others iterate and iterate 
6/ We did not want to force the art or the artists to match a completely arbitrary design of how large SZN1 would be.

So we switched halfway through to a date-based approach.

Whatever cards were ready by Dec 16, that was SZN1.

In the end, 47, not 80. 
7/ And so the current plan is to continue with this model.

We will aim for 4 SZNs in 2023, roughly correlating to Winter / Spring / Summer / Fall in the Northern hemisphere

However many cards happen in these dates will determine the SZN

8/ Now you notice that there is a break between SZNs.

We are going to try it for many reasons:

 Everyone needs a break, particularly during holidays

 It gives an opportunity for new ideas to get some airtime / attention 
9/ Our hope is that in future holiday seasons that almost all new announcements will be community driven.

Let's say you are working on a Memes Card community project.

If you are close to a holiday break, you may be better off announcing during that break to get more attention 
10/ The other reason is culture. All societies, all communities develop idiosyncratic culture.

And often there is a pattern: birth in winter, rebirth in the spring, party in the summer, bounty in the fall.

These are the patterns of our ancestors 
11/ What should those cultural traditions be here?

I have no idea, it is not for me to say.

Cultural can only emerge organically, bottom-up.

So this year's Festivities are a meta-holiday, a proposal of sorts that we should have holidays 
12/ What holidays, at which points, we will have in the future will be based on what gains memetic traction among people.

I think it will be nice if have holidays, but the people will decide  
13/ So "Memeception"?

Well, we already have a birth of sorts, an Independence Day of sorts, the day it all started

6/9/2022

Can't beat that for "birth" 
14/ But candle of light in the winter? Well that is nice to think about.

So a version of birth, but perhaps more recursive.

So "Memeception"

Maybe it is good, maybe it is not, we will see if it takes off this year, but more so next year

 

1/ The Festivities, Announcement 3

This is an easy one and a fast one and it is directed to the Meme Card artists

@6529er will be dropping you a Meme Card Artist NFT in January 2023

 
2/ The purpose of this card is two-fold:

To commemorate your participation in The Meme Cards

 To make "Meme Card artists" composable on-chain.

Right now, we have the name of the artist in the card traits.

Dropping an NFT means everyone can reference the artist on-chain 
3/ We will do this for SZN1 retrospectively and, then once this is done, we will do this in real time, with the ongoing Meme Card drops

One framework I have for NFTs is that they are publicly readable databases of "special interest groups" or "communities" 
4/ This data is typically kept in private databases right now.

For example, there is a list of Meme Artists twitter accounts right here (kept in the twitter database)

It is useful and you should follow them!!

5/ But we (the grand "NFT Twitter" we) should, as much as possible, aim to get our information on-chain.

It is of course good for risk mitigation (twitter might change policies, might suspend accounts, might change features) but also for composability 
6/ What do I mean in this context re composability? Someone might:

Allowlist the meme artists to a mint
Invite them to an on-chain messaging service
Grant them access to a token-gated metaverse space
 Build a front-end with their info 
7/ I am not saying that these are good ideas necessarily (but they might be) and I am not saying that these are a comprehensive set of ideas (they are definitely not).

What I am saying is that when we move useful information on chain, new ideas can emerge. 
8/ Meme Card artists, there is nothing you need to do now.

When @6529er is ready, he will be in touch to confirm which address you would like this NFT to be dropped to.

Thanks again for your huge contribution to The Meme cards

 

1/ Snapshot #2 is done

This snapshot is for an experiment!

The experiment is a generative art drop that we are working on with @Ars0nic / @Ze_blocks

The experiment is that we are going to read "randomness" from Meme Card wallets


2/ We've been working on the artwork for months and have gone back to the drawing board and thrown things away multiple times

It is quite hard

We now seem to have a pathway that may work, but there is still a decent road ahead of us

no ETA yet

art will be ready when ready 
3/ Details

a) today's snapshot will determine the allowlist for the mint
b) an input to the mint (but not sole input) will be the address's szn1 memes at the time of mint
c) Collection size probably +/- 1,000 (details tbd)
d) will respect delegation contract consolidations 
4/ So take this as an art experiment only. it is not part of The Memes szn2 series.

It is generative art, under an external constraint.

Maybe we will learn something from it, maybe not, but we are having fun. 

1/ On NFT Delegation

This is yesterday's announcement, a bit delayed.

tl;dr

we are launching a delegation contract, with an open license

bug bounties for finding any errors in it

we will push to production in a week or two 
2/ I think NFT delegation is a fundamental security issue in the space.

Some background reading on why:

I wrote this last year, this time


3/ And then in June, wrote about it some more and asked for a group of people to get together to try to figure this out

A bunch of us got together and discussed this on telegram


4/ There are now some existing good solutions in the space

@eternalproxy by @0mnus which has been up for a while

@delegatecash by @0xfoobar that spun out of that telegram group

And I know of at least one more being worked on from that group 
5/ A few months into the telegram group, seeing different groups of people go in their own direction, I realized we were were heading to this world

It is fine, strong-minded people have opinions, we live in a democracy, it is ok 

6/ The services above are good and work.

We are launching our own delegation contract for The memes and for OM (and for anyone else who wants to use it) is for fairly subtle differences in how I think it should work, that I think may be important over time. 
7/ Specifically our delegation contract has the following design parameters:

1. Arbitrary delegation types
2. No external dependencies
3. No NFT rentals (at least for now)
4. As precise as the collection or token level 
8/ For me the most interesting is abitrary delegation types.

We are starting with these, we may add more at launch and we can add more later

I think this is quite important - Your vault address, your minting address, your "party in NYC" address all can be different things

9/ What is the "consolidation" case?

It is when a user wants a service to treat two (or theoretically more) addresses as one.

As our addresses proliferate, this will have some value.

This one needs bilateral / multilateral delegation 
10/ What is "sub-delegation" - this is an address that can set delegation rights for another address.

It is a way to even move the changes in delegation to a proxy address. 
11/ A few technical items

a) delegation can be indefinite or time limited; can also be revoked or updated

b) there can be different delegated addresses for different collections or tokens

c) a variety of methods, we think scalable, to return the delegated addresses 
12/ The code is here on github

Documentation is a bit sparse now but we will be adding.

We also will be adding the ability to delegate a specific token or a whole address (realized while tweeting that we missed this somehow)


GitHub - 6529-Collections/nftdelegation: Delegation contract
Delegation contract. Contribute to 6529-Collections/nftdelegation development by creating an account on GitHub.
13/ Once we are ready:

 the code will be released under an open license (MIT or CC0), so anyone can do what they like with it

we will launch a contract with a reference implementation at NFTdelegation.com

we will integrate into Memes/Gradients asap and OM later 

NFTDelegation
NFTDelegation
http://NFTdelegation.com
14/ So the code will be free as in speech and using the contract will be free as in beer*

* plus gas

It will work for any project, any collection, any token 
15/ Ideas and feedback are welcome and encouraged. As a sign of extra gratitude:

1 ETH for any small errors/bugs found

If you find something serious, I will buy and send you a SGT Pepe

16/ In terms of timing, we will give until the new year to see if anyone notices something "wrong" or that can be improved.

I would say first week of January-ish, reference implementation is live and mid-January it is working for The Memes allowlists 
17/ For Meme Card holders who need hot wallet mapping, until this is live in mid-January, @teexels will continue to offer manual mapping services 

But we are now close to fully automating this and taking out any manual aspects

 
18/ In total, I feel we are making good community progress in this regard.

 There are multiple good solutions out there
 A couple more are inbound
 Each with (smallish) differences in orientation 
19/ I think we can set a NFT field team goal that by end of Q1 2023, basically every project is using one of the delegation contracts for allowlists and minting, verification and so on.

And higher-in-the-stack versions of this like @tokenproof can serve a UI/UX role I think 
20/ So, in summary:

 If you are a developer and interested, take a look at the code
 if you are not, general ideas still welcome
 if you are just a NFT enjoyer, just wait  

1/ So I have been enjoying occasionally sniping a piece from the @AngelaNikolau_ ongoing "Freedom in the Sky" collection

Had not looked in a while but today's piece "Merry Christmas" (#42) is beautiful.

Collected for Fund SZN4

2/ Previously for the fund

#12 "Stop The Moment"

3/ For @6529Museum

"Sunny Dubai Extreme Edition"
#25

4/ Also for @6529Museum

"Tranquility"
#14

5/ I find all of this mindboggling and cannot imagine doing this.

Also, I think I think it goes without saying "don't do this at home kids"

And even if you are @AngelaNikolau_ umm be safe?

tl;dr - wild shots, some beautiful shots, all make me nervous 

1/ The Artists ReMemes contract, take 2

Let's start at the beginning.

Certain Meme Card artists have wanted to airdrop or mint extensions of their own Meme Card, for Meme Card holders or others. 
2/ We told them "great", we will give you a contract to mint, so we can keep this nice and organized

Of course, the Meme Artists are not going to do a ton of follow-up ReMemes, so we thought "well maybe it would be nice if we let the community mint on that contract too" 
3/ Then we thought "but if it is open, some people will put inappropriate material on," so we need some controls.

Then we thought, "but we don't want to be the decision-makers" so the community can give a yes/no (including us, as members of the community) 
4/ I thought it was a pretty good idea tbh, but some members of the community pointed out two issues:

It will discourage ReMemers if they get voted "no"

It might subtly discourage other ReMemes, if they are not "official" 
5/ The first point I thought was really good and was a real flaw of this plan.

Right now everyone is having fun ReMemeing and doing whatever they want with the CC0 cards.

Some are more or less successful, but it is the anonymous "market" to blame for this 
6/ If your friends instead say "yes"/"no" to your ReMeme, it feels much more personal, much more discouraging, not as nice.

This was the deciding factor here for me.

It would be a significant vibe shift in a bad direction. 
7/ The second point is more subtle and my views on it are more complex.

It is true that it would have create some tiering and this is, in fact, undesirable.

But the tiering is going to emerge anyway, it is just going to happen somewhere else, possibly more poorly thought out 
8/ Whether you call it "discoverability" or "community" or "economies of scale", humans are not going to all work solo.

The end state is not that each ReMeme is minted on a contract with one ReMeme on it and nobody works with each other. 
9/ What will happen is that other aggregation or centralization points will emerge.

they already exist: opensea / discord / twitter

and new memes community-driven ones are starting: seizerdao, 6529 complaints, the directory of rememes, rememes marketplace 
10/ I am fully supportive of people doing these types of things and I think it is highly desirable.

But the successful ones are just a few months away from facing the exact same problems.

Take the simplest problem of all: "discoverability" of the ReMemes 
11/ I think this is a genuine problem that we need to solve.

I love the ReMemes and I have a hard time finding them.

Even worse, I am worried I will get socially engineered into retweeting a malicious ReMemes contract, so I am generally afraid to retweet 
12/ In time what will happen is that one of the emerging directories will 'succeed' more than others, we will all start using it

AND

it will have to face all the same content moderation problems we just kicked down the road last night 
13/ The edge state of "no content moderation" does not exist.

That end state would be that *any* The Memes gathering point would be 80% phishing links.

But in time, we will have the harder cases, the less black and white cases

It is worth thinking about the right way to handle 
14/ "These are a lot of words 6529"

Yes, I am thinking in public, getting feedback in public and sharing what I am learning in case it is useful to others

"How you use NFTs to organize social change" is the mission here, right?

In this light, these are "easy mode" problems 
15/ We are going to have far harder problems to solve in the future than "discoverability" of ReMemes

And so these are excellent test cases to figure out how we can manage in a community driven, decentralized and scalable way 
16/ So back to the Artists.

What are the parameters there for their extensions/ReMemes?

Art: Whatever they want
Edition Size: Whatever they want
Distribution Mechanism: Whatever they want
Collabs with others: Whatever they want 
17/ I think we leave economic parameters up to the artists' discretion on if & how much revenue they want to share

Primary revenue: Up to them
Secondary revenue: Up to them
AD to 6529 Museum/Team: Up to them

Contract will have 6.9% royalty, but can be allocated "wherever" 
18/ What about discoverability of community ReMemes?

We will have to come back to this topic when we have a more broadly accepted solution.

Lots of discord discussion. No obvious conclusion yet.

All good! 

1/ On The Festitivies 2022

This is a thread of threads to capture all The Festitivies threads.

It will join the master thread to be a thread of threads of threads 
2/ The Festivities Calendar 2022

Note that Jan 1 is in fact a Sunday


3/ The Festivities 2022 Snapshot blocks


4/ The Artist Rememes Contract, Take 2


5/ Snapshot #1




1/ The Festivities Calendar

It is final and also might change 

You don't need your wallet to mint during this time (except on Jan 1).

The snapshots are for airdrops/mints that will happen after Jan 1, so we can chill for a bit

@teexels find the snapshot blocks!

2/ First things first, we are definitely hosting a NYE party in @OM100m.

I promised a year ago we would be in a position to do it and I think we are.

We will run in multiple timezones - Asia, Europe/Africa and Americas

@DarrenSRS is organizing 
3/ If you want to help organize or do something during the NYE (DJ, host an art show, host an open mic, do a comedy standup, do weird experimental art things), get in touch with @DarrenSRS.

If you have a great idea about someone to invite, also get in touch with @DarrenSRS 
4/ This will be community driven.

My only guidance here is that "TV on NYE is hopelessly boring and cheesy"

Let's put on an event that we will want to actual attend, that is interesting, fun, has edge, is not dumbed down 
5/ "But @punk6529, I want to party on NYE, not play on my computer"

 Great! But not all people will want to
 Let it run on your TV in the background while you get drunk!
 Join in a different timezone than your party

No stress, no expectations, let's have fun! 
6/ @DarrenSRS already has some good ideas, but I want to crowdsource more through this thread and after the next go-around, he can present a suggested party plan!

What about the other holidays? Those are new, harder, thoughts in the next few days. 
7/ Some people are worried about the snapshot, moving their cards, losing their "hodling history"

The tl;dr is you can move your card and won't lose your transaction history IF you retain signing rights on your original address (we will respect up to 2 address)

Details below

8/ I am super busy the next couple of days so will be a bit lighter than usual on twitter and discord

Start planning NYE with @DarrenSRS, team is working on the rest, and chase @6529er if it is something urgent.

LFG! 

1/ Just fell into the ChatGPT rabbit hole. Sorry, can't help myself.

London History, in the style of Dr Seuss

2/ Bears, piglets, donkeys, redux

3/ what to do when your bro does you dirty

4/ Decline a party, with subtle variations

5/ How does ethereum work?

6/ War and Peace

7/ European energy security

8/ why soho?

9/ angela merkel lightens up

10/ juan, drunk again

11/ 7 days in French Riviera

12/ the louvre

13/ buck teeth

(this is extremely sensible advice)

14/ contesting a speeding ticket

15/ citibank

16/ Nespresso

17/ not hating players nor games

18/ man the pro-goose bias is strong

19/ aml

20/ BTC ETF

21/ street art

damn, this was legit faster than i could have done it. a bit cliche, sure, but damn, better than what most people could write tbh

22/ tried to rug chatgpt, got rugged in return

1/ On SBF & FTX

I think this is not going to be a hugely long thread (I think).

It is not going to be hugely insightful for anyone deep in crypto.

But maybe it will help as a reference to our friends in the media who are struggling quite a bit with this topic 
2/ Various disclaimers:

- Please include an "allegedly" to everything in this thread, though I think I am only discussing things that SBF *himself* has admitted to

- I am not a lawyer, your lawyer, etc

- I am not going to cover every single topic, only the essence 
3/ Who was in charge here? Well, SBF of course.

SBF controlled FTX, Alameda and many other entities in the SBF/FTX ecosystem.

He was the "man in charge"

He signed the checks.

None of this could have without his knowledge and his own *direct action* 
4/ What happened?

The really important thing that happened is that:

SBF moved customer funds (deposits) from FTX (and possibly other entities) to Alameda (his personally wholly owned trading firm) and then possibly to himself personally.

Allegedly but SBF has admitted this 
5/ So let's make it comprehensible to our non-crypto brethren

You deposit money at JP Morgan Chase.

One day your money is gone.

Where did it go?

To Jamie Dimon's personal trading firm and Jamie Dimon personally. 
6/ How much money?

Well nobody knows for sure, but it appears to be in the range of $10 billion which is an awful lot of money anyway you count it.

This is going to be one of the largest (alleged) misappropriations of customer funds in human history 
7/ SBF/FTX also allegedly did a whole of other things that may be inappropriate or illegal (e.g. AML/KYC violations, securities violations, market manipulation, use of company assets for personal use and so on).

Allegedly there are a lot of these too, but don't get distracted! 
8/ Now $10B is a lot of money to be missing.

Why wasn't there a whistleblower? Why didn't lawyers, accountants, staff notice?

Well because allegedly SBF built a special custom-made accounting system to hide the missing assets. 
9/ So to recap, the CEO and control owner of a firm, allegedly:

 Took $10B of customer deposits
 Moved them to a company he owns 100%
 Further moved them to himself
 Made special software to hide the transfers from others 
10/ Of course, these are all allegations for now.

But given that:
 SBF has sortof agreed this is what happened
 And withdrawals are frozen at FTX

I think we (not the court system) can assume for now that the rough outline of the story is correct 
11/ So, ok what is the proper and normal societal response and takeaway to this?

Well, I am pretty sure that the normal response is that it is "really really really bad"

It is allegedly one of the greatest thefts in human history if true. 
12/ What are things we should have close to zero interest in right now?

 How this affects SBF's "philanthropic" efforts
 What SBF thinks of CeFi or crypto
 What SBF thinks of regulation
 "what went wrong"
 "was SBF about to raise fresh capital" 
13/ Let's take the completely implausible SBF take that "he was about to raise more money"

So what?

SBF was literally days earlier allegedly stealing customer funds.

Why would we have even 1% confidence he wouldn't steal the new money too? 
14/ It is *fantastic* news that SBF did not raise more money.

Very obviously, nobody should trust SBF to be in a custodial position with anyone's funds ever again.

This is independent of any criminal or civil liability.

This is simply: "not being a complete moron" 
15/ There is a whitewashing effort that SBF is attempting now to soften the public perception ahead of possible legal troubles.

The general theme of whitewashing effort is: "we were young and inexperienced and disorganized and bad at risk management and we made mistakes" 
16/ This whitewashing is unadulterated bullshit.

SBF is a lot of things, but he is not cognitively challenged.

He was raised by top university professors and famously attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology which is famously not a safety school. 
17/ He was running one of the world's largest exchanges and a prop trading operation, with a vast global presence, while running an extensive lobbying operation, testifying in Congress and so on.

Even doing this "immaturely" is a huge lift, elite tier work, very few could do it 
18/ The issue is here is not that "FTX grew too fast, did not have the proper accounting controls and failed"

The issue is that when SBF had to make a decision about whether he should allegedly take his customers' funds for himself, he thought:

"Why, yes, I think I will" 
19/ An alternative view of the situation is not "there were no accounting controls because SBF is dumb" but "there were no accounting controls to facilitate the alleged misappropriation"

In other words, the lack of accounting controls was a feature for SBF, not a bug. 
20/ I remind you when SBF wanted to hide the transfers, he allegedly made a fake accounting system to do so.

So when he needed to build fake accounting controls, he was more than mentally capable of doing so.

Hard to find an innocent explanation for this tbh 
21/ I am surprised with the relatively mild treatment SBF is getting in the media.

The generous view is that there are so many parts to the SBF story and so many allegedly inappropriate things that happened that people are getting confused. 
22/ But that is a generous view

I think the rough outline of the main alleged misappropriation is clear.

And if that is the case, the focus right now should be on preserving evidence and preventing evidence tampering.

We are in the law enforcement, not media tour, phase now. 
23/
Is SBF innocent until proven guilty? of course

Is he going to mount a sophisticated defense?: I assume so, as is his right

Is there probable cause that some crime was committed?

I mean I am not a public prosecutor but people have been detained for much much less 
24/ Is this complicated because it is cross-jurisdictional?

I guess sortof, but not really?

The Bahamas is an English common law country - a legal framework very similar to the UK and broadly similar to the USA - and with excellent relations with the USA. 
25/ In other words, in terms of cross-country coordination of law enforcement activity, this is "easy mode"

It is not like FTX was located in the USA and North Korea.

And the Bahamas has every incentive to be strict here if they ever want to host a fin svcs company again 
26/ The goal right now should be "evidence preservation" and "prevention of evidence tampering"

With the allegedly known facts, there is no reason to assume good faith from SBF on these matters.

USA and Bahamas law enforcement at a minimum should be sending top specialists 
27/ Evidence preservation is going to be a herculean task.

It is a lot of money, a lot of crypto, a lot of non-existent accounting controls and, in fact, accounting controls used to obfuscate the truth. 
28/ I think there should also be an assumption that assets (probably crypto based) may still be under SBF's or colleagues' control.

In other words, while the $10B alleged misappropriation is the big deal, it does not mean that there might not be $100M in a side wallet 
29/ The United States government has more capacity on crypto tracing than you may imagine, in different departments and units.

This is an excellent time and opportunity to make use of it, for the public good. 
30/ The focus right now should be on recovery for the victims.

Which means evidence/asset preservation.

People deserve the maximum recovery and the real facts on what happened 
31/ In time, there will be plenty of time for the civil and possibly criminal issues to be resolved in court.

But to do that appropriately today law enforcement should be focused on evidence preservation. 
31/ What does this mean for SBF's life arc?

Why should anyone care about this?

SBF was one of the most privileged people on the planet over the last few years and, one way or another, he abused this privilege.

We should care about the victims. 
32/ In time, we will learn (or I hope we will learn) what things in this episode were:

Massive irresponsibility
Civil violations
Criminal violations

But there is no outcome that is sympathetic to SBF 
33/ What about the other people who were deceived by SBF?

Politicians, charities, media organizations.

Well, now is the time to walk away.

A lot of people were deceived somehow by SBF including almost all of us on crypto twitter.

(Very few people predicted this) 
34/ It is understandable, he did a good job of projecting a certain public  ("a responsible operator, in favor of regulation"), while in practice doing the exact opposite (allegedly, theft basically).

It was reasonable to not understand this 1 month ago, but not today. 
35/ Not that anyone asked me, but I do not judge anyone for having normal pleasant business and media interactions with SBF 1 month ago.

But it is not appropriate today.

The business/media presumption now should be against him and we can reevaluate again later 
36/ Finally, what does this have to do with crypto?

Well, close to nothing. This is a failure of the custodial system, not the non-custodial system.

But I will save that for another thread. If this is your first time, we believe in decentralization.


1/ The people in the discord know this but I want twitter to know this.

And I have to say this when prices are going UP to be credible.

I don't worry about The Memes collection prices. It does not matter so much.

I worry only about spreading the message of decentralization.

2/ Artists/creators tend to take victory laps when prices are going up and then get very quiet when prices are going down.

I will tell you the same thing in both cases, which is the same thing I say about NFTs in general, which is... 
3/ ...buy NFTs out of your "entertainment" budget, in amounts that do not stress you, at a price that provides value for you emotionally / aesthetically / values-based, regardless of what the future price is.

I want you to Have Fun Owning NFTs (HFON) 
4/ The primary prices for The Memes are 0.06529ETH which is a price that is very deliberately set low.

It is the cost of a nice meal or night on the town, it is the cost of a non-fine art piece of decorative art.

It can fit into the non-investment part of your spending. 
5/ So I am here to warn you to not get FOMOed on the secondary markets.

For some people, 1ETH for a Meme Card is nothing, they won't even notice it in their NFT spending. OK. Cool.

For others, it might be stressful. For those people who are stressed, don't pressure yourself. 
6/ The cards are CC0 (public domain)

If you can't afford a certain card easily, stress-free, then copy it, steal it, remix it, make a derivative, make a t-shirt, make a game object, do whatever you like, but don't stress yourself to buy it if you can't afford to 
7/ Some people are collecting full sets of The Memes.

That is great, that is fun, I did it with Art Blocks, I am doing it here too, including for some friends and family.

But inevitably not everyone can do this and *it is ok*

If you have 1 or if you have 100, it is all good. 
8/ What happened this weekend?

Sgt Pepe dropped, people loved Sgt Pepe, someone liked it a lot and bought 25 of them, the price went up, people got excited and more people bought Meme Cards.

OK, it is fine, but stay cool. It is a marathon, not a sprint. 
9/ The goal of The Meme cards is to run indefinitely.

Which means that there will be other great cards in the future too.

So if there is a card you can't afford now, it is ok, there might be one in the future that you like and can afford. 
10/ It is important to me that there are always affordable entry points to the Meme Cards and there will always be affordable entry points.

It might be the case that some cards become expensive and attract the more "rarity" collector types and that is also fine so long... 
11/ ...as the people who pay more on secondary are the type of people who can afford to and are not using the rent money for this.

remember: crypto prices will go up and down and so will NFT prices, and they can stay down for long periods

buy only what you can HODL stressfree 
12/ My mental model for any purchase I make of crypto (including NFTs) is "would I be OK holding this amount of this token for a decade even if I can't sell it?"

And then I don't worry about daily, monthly, even annual price moves.

It is liberating, more of you should try it. 
13/ Now, back to the main event, decentralization.

How do I define success for The Memes?

My metric, my KPI, my OKR is "Can we make an impact on the world? Can we change hearts and minds, and, ultimately, actions, AT SCALE"

We need scale to change the world for the better. 
14/ By that metric, we are not even close, we are just getting started.

There are 3,600 or so holders and some (x) amount that I have not counted yet of derivative holders.

When I dream, I dream of (x) at least being in the tens of millions, sometime this decade. 
15/ Over the next few months, we hope to release some tools that will make this easier.

To create, to co-create, to track, to spread the message and to organize to impact the world

+/- by end of Q1 2023 maybe we will have a public "impact dashboard" that we can all watch 
16/ So this is my general mental model for The Memes.

Great Art + Great Artists + Decentralization Memes + Tools + People Using The Tools To Build A Network = Change The World

The art part is up and running.

The focus for next 6 months is "make / release tools" 
17/ Or a different framework, a more abstract one.

If we are building a 'network state' of sorts, a decentralized city-state of sorts, then we will need some infrastructure tools.

Yes, one of those tools is OM. But we will need some other tools too. 
18/ So this is the context in which I say "I don't worry about price so much"

We have decentralized culture and infrastructure to build.

This is what matters, not the casino-style crypto narrative. 
19/ Or a different framework. Imagine a successful company or organization or nation or religion.

They tend to focus on a mission and to work to achieve that mission.

What they tend NOT to do is think "Can I sell myself tomorrow to a higher bidder?" 
20/ So that is what I want us to do. Focus on the mission of ensuring digital decentralization survives and thrives.

If we succeed in that, the rest will be fine. If we do not, all the rest is doomed anyway.

Have Fun! Don't Stress! Don't Overspend! 

1/ On How To Effectively End Crypto (for decades)

A short thread

Simultaneously ban all fiat-to-crypto exchanges in USA and EU because (pick your excuse):
a) money laundering
b) terrorism
c) sanctions busting
d) inequality 
2/ Something like this would do the trick:

fiat-to-crypto exchanges will terminate operations in 30 days

holding on-chain crypto is illegal in 30 days in US/EU, punishable with $100,000 fine and 5 years in jail

no transfers from exchanges to on-chain wallets 
3/ What do you think would happen next?

 everyone sends to exchanges
 proceeds to sell
 who is the buyer in this case?
 price collapses
 more panic
 repeat cycle 
4/ "No, 6529, not everyone would sell"

Sure, not literally everyone. maybe @lopp would not sell.

But what % of you would risk jail, fines and potential complete loss of the value of your crypto assets for decentralization.

My guess is close to zero. 
5/ Let's take the first test, the first heuristic.

If you hold your crypto on an exchange or a centralized custodian as opposed to running your own node, your own wallet, well you are in the "sell category"

Actually, you are in the "you have no choice" category 
6/ Anyway who has their coins on an exchange will have them frozen overnight and "what they want to do" is completely irrelevant.

Or, let me state it differently, if today, with no crisis, no risk, you can't be bothered to run decentralized, you won't fight the state. 
7/ Most people, even big thinkers, thought influencers, whales have their coins in exchanges or custodians.

It is frankly somewhere between bizarre and amusing that the average class of 2021 NFT holder is somehow more on-chain than the class of [2012+] BTC holder. 
8/ "but 6529, this will never happen"

Why are you so sure it won't? The USA banned private gold ownership for nearly 40 years.

GOLD! the "it is Lindy because we have used it for thousands of years" tech.

FFS, it was illegal in all boomer's lifetimes. 
9/ In a serious actual or engineered financial or security crisis, I dunno, I think it can happen.

Nuclear or bio attack "funded by crypto"
Currency crisis/hyperbitcoinization

In this type of situation, the off-chain centers of power will not go quietly 
10/ It could also happen progressively as is happening now @EpsilonTheory - Eye of Sauron style

As things stand, it will be illegal on 1/1/2024 to conduct a transaction on-chain for more than $10K without sending KYC information within 10 days to Treasury 
11/ I am not sure how DeFi/AMMs are supposed to work in that model.

It would literally be the end of defi for US persons (defi would become centralized basically).

And NFTs will be traded only through KYC-ed marketplace for everyone's "don't break the law" convenience 
12/ NFTs are a bit more protected than DeFi.

You would still have a token that you could move permissionlessly at the end (you would just be afraid to do so).

DeFi, though, I dunno how it survives. 
13/ "Market competition from other countries will save us!"

Who? Russia? China? India? Nigeria?

All of these countries are currently stricter than the USA and if they ran crypto-busting, might get sanctioned.

Are you going to risk jail for it? 
14/ Does this make you uncomfortable?

Good!

If it does it means you have not been thinking seriously enough about what decentralization means at a system level.

Crypto security assurances really do have external dependencies. 
15/ I am not saying that, say, the BTC blockchain will not work in this scenario.

BTC will work fine at $100/BTC like it did before.

But hash rate will flee, people will be rekt and nobody will trust BTC for a generation or ever. 
16/ "No 6529, state competition and self interest will prevent this"

MAYBE. Maybe. But are you 100% sure? What if you are wrong?

The point of adverserial thinking is to think about if bad people are your counterparty. 
17/ In 2022, we have mild people in charge, pro-innovation, not dictators and so on and soon it will be illegal to swap 9 ETH on uniswap without filling out a bunch of forms.

Canada (Canada!) froze all types of financial accounts.

Is it that hard to imagine worse? Is it? Why? 
18/ So, what do we do? For me, it is three things.

#1 adoption - we live in democracies, politicians are sortof responsive to voters.

It makes a difference if 5% vs 50% of people have some experience with crypto, with the power of digital ownership, ideally on-chain 
19/ #2 is continuing the grind of explaining to politicians why crypto is broadly good for our countries.

Why innovation is good for our countries.

Why rent-seeking big tech oligopolies is NOT the perfect end-state for society.

The USA version is here

20/ The EU version of this argument is here:


21/ #3 Put another layer of defense, a free speech layer of defense, a memetic layer of defense, a first amendment protected layer of defense, in place.

Something that can bridge chains, float through social media, live off-chain, show up in rallies.

Memes

22/ #1 adoption and #3 memes are what NFTs are going to do for decentralization.

They are the best technology to get people to transact on-chain by a factor of infinity.

And memes (myths) are what drive society and politics. They are the apex objects of society. 
23/ The hardcore fungible coins crowd is immensely dense on this topic.

"har har har, can't believe people are putting JPGs on a blockchain while we are doing fancy math on AMM v5"

My brothers and sisters, your AMM is dead meat with one stroke of a legislative pen 
24/ "AMMs on ETH are dead meat, but my BTC is hardened state resistant money"

The industrial mining facilities will be shut down the same day as the CEXes. Easy to find!

And with price collapses, the hidden Asian ones will bleed hash rate. BTC will live, but in the shadows. 
25/ "no, no, this will only prove the BTC case, people will flock to it"

I dunno. Maybe. It is a big gamble to take. as @NeerajKA says "maybe we can survive being banned, but isn't it better if we are not?" 
26/ What odds do I put on this adverserial case?

I dunno, I have no idea, say 25%.

I don't think it is 2% or 1% or 0.1%. I don't think it is a number we can ignore

Be wary of "normalcy bias" - that things will continue tomorrow as they did today. Things change sometimes. 
27/ Humor me and say the chance is 25% or 40% or 10%. Just not that it is not 0.001% or something.

And if the chance is in my range, well that is a lot.

Decentralized databases are really important to the future of our digital lives.

The alternative is digital serfdom. 
28/ So it is worth a lot of effort, even at a 25% risk.

CBDCs are coming for sure. AIs are coming for sure. Closed metaverses are coming for sure, along with closed VR/AR.

We need to preserve some space for freedom, some space to breathe, an exit valve for society. 
29/ So keep going, keep building, keep pushing culture into decentralized containers and keep expanding its scope.

There is a pathway to a better place, but it is not easy, it is not simple, it is not 'repeating some slogans', it needs IRL engagement too 
30/ If you are new around here, we like JPGs and we like open metaverses and it seems we are going to have to figure it ourselves bc the people in charge are asleep at the wheel

1/ A lot of "permissionless innovation" takes are LOL self-interested/biased

Many companies (yes, companies, centralized companies with shareholders) are literally on the opposite side of the same issue at the same time, depending on if is their interests being impacted. 
2/ You should respect "permissionless innovation" takes that hurt the person's interest who is saying it.

When people's take aligns with their economic interest, it is just psyops and fair play if the counterparty strikes back 
3/ To put it in another words.

"Permissionless innovation" means the other party ALSO can fight back in any way they want to - they are not required to subsidize your future exit from your startup.

Next few years gonna be fun to watch play out. 
4/ And I expect to see a lot of this from the "permissionless pseudo-innovators"




1/ We talk about CC0 and a lot of people think it is scary, but it is the *default* state for culture.

CC0 is just the public domain and everything over a certain age, including most culture we love, is in the public domain.

In this light, Meme Card #29

2/ In 2022, the original Winnie-the-Pooh book and illustrations entered the public domain.

Which means you can remix Winnie-the-Pooh - as in the first book - anyway you like.

So @6529er and I did - as usual, he did the hard work including the poem. The original page is this.

3/ We did something else for "Seize The Bees of Production"

The NFT description contains an Arweave link to a PDF of the whole first Winnie-the-Pooh book.

to the @gutenberg_org - they do an incredible job cataloging important books in the public domain 
4/ A few logistical items.

All 32 winners of the @0xDecaArt x 6529 Curation competition will receive a free airdrop of this Meme Card (some will also receive a 2nd one and the ultimate winner a Naka card) 
5/ In the spirit of openness this will be a rare public mint.

The edition size is 469. After the usual holdbacks, the number available to mint will be 346.

We generally avoid public mints to avoid gas wars, so please only spend on gas what you want to spend. 
6/ The secondary market in the Meme Cards is pretty liquid and, often, very reasonably priced so don't end up paying more on gas than on the card.

Almost all drops will continue to be allowlisted but I have been itching to do something more open for a while, so today is the day 
7/ The public mint will go live at 1pm ET (40 minutes or so from now) at the usual location:

thememes.6529.io

The (simplified for this drop) distribution details are attached

Have fun with Winnie-the-Punk derivatives and Seize the !




http://thememes.6529.io
8/ Post-credit scene. I posted the wrong/WIP version of the card!

We originally made the page #69 but Winnie was triggering too many childhood memories to leave it there

So feel free to ding @6529er and me a couple of degen points.

The final minted page number was 6529

9/ ps - the winnie with a red shirt is in later books, it is not yet in the public domain.

To see which text and illustrations are in the public domain, check the PDF in the arweave link in the Meme Card 


1/ On Is Money Just A Game?

tl;dr

For most people, it is a huge struggle, but the people who make the most money tend to think of it as a game.

Can we thread the needle and figure out why both people are right?

We will try! Off we go. 
2/ A common question among Manhattan finance professionals is "what is your number?"

The number is meant to be "the number at which you have enough money to retire, not go to the office and so on"

It is not a normal question in most parts of the world, but polite enough in NYC. 
3/ Also, non-NYC people will find the NYC answer to this question to be obnoxious.

By the time people are in their 30s and doing well in finance, it is unlikely the number is less than $20M

Wait seriously? How can that be? 
4/ Well, ok, here is the math.

You want a nice 3 bedroom family apartment in a nice neighborhood to raise your kids? $5M

Private school for 2 kids for 18 years plus college. $1M/kid, total $2M minimum 
5/ An entry-level home in the Hamptons? $3M

That leaves $10M, assume inflation eats away 2% / year (back then, not now), you have a safe-ish return of 3% post inflation, $300K pre-tax, $150K post tax, property taxes on your house $50K/year, restaurants, travel, etc 
6/ It sounds ridiculous to anyone outside that context but if the question is taken literally - you never work again and you have to run the rest of your life on that money while living the high end NYC professional lifestyle, you probably do need something around $20M upfront 
7/ And note that this does not give you the hyper deluxe high end NYC professional life.

It gives you the entry-level high end NYC professional life.

As people got richer, you heard $50M floated, then $100M floated and it goes up from there 
8/ A note for the audience, lest they get too excited about job opportunities in NYC.

Most people who said "$20M" for the number never come close to it.

They may have the life above, but by working their butts off every year until retirement, to have current income coming in. 
9/ What I want to say is that "The Number" was a bit of a parlor game, a way to relieve the stress of working 80 hours per week, a chat over your 4th martini, a way to daydream that you can enjoy the adult goodies of NYC without the office grind. 
10/ I was once asked this question, fairly young, *in a job interview* by a billionaire.

I froze - do I say "$20M" (humble man of the people), $50M (more ambitious), a bigger number (delusional?)

I fudged in the normal range & said "but I would never stop working" (go-getter!) 
11/ In any case, this is all nonsense, nobody ever stops working whether they make it or not.

You cannot fill the hole with money, you have to fill it with love.

This is covered here in great depth:


12/ One day, I had a friend from out of town, a normal person with a normal job in a normal city.

I asked them "what is your number?"

They were a bit surprised because normal people don't ask this rude questions like this and blurted out "$1M" 
13/ I thought this was all very charming and sweet because it is what normal people will say "I am a millionaire"

Nobody asks stupid questions like this in the real world so nobody checks the math.

So I asked some follow-up questions and we went to dinner 
14/ A brief interruption, lest I now seem out of touch.

While I was having this very discussion, I probably had $50K in my bank account.

This was a parlor game, a thought exercise in your 20s and 30s, not an actual thing that people who actually have $100M think about. 
15/ In any case, we were at dinner chit-chatting and I said: "anyway, none of this matters, money is just a game anyway"

NOW my friend got pissed off at me.

"What do you mean, money is a game?"
"Do you realize how hard I work?"
"If I lose my job, I am out on the street" 
16/ Oh boy, now I have done it, how do I handle this now?

We were having a perfectly nice time at dinner and now I look like the jerk of the year.

Every single thing my friend said IS TRUE.
But what I said WAS ALSO TRUE. 
17/ Here is the answer, my answer to this question.

As with all "framework" answers it is partially right and partially wrong.

My goal as always with frameworks is not to convince you if they are "right" (no such thing), but to give you a tool that might be "useful" 
18/ For the vast majority of people in the world, money is *not at all a game*

It is highly stressful. Many people are 1/2/10/20 paychecks away from disaster, from things that will ruin their lives.

They have responsibilities, they work hard, they care, and still barely get by 
19/ For those of you in those shoes (most people reading this), please know that I agree with this view and I agree that this is how your life is.

What I am here to tell you is that "this is how the game is set up, it is how it is set up to function." 
20/ Money is many things but, for today, in the context of a capitalist society, I want to focus on a specific thing.

Money is an information processing and distribution system.

Read that about a zillion times. It is very important. 
21/ No society is perfectly capitalist or centrist/communist but to use some stereotypes:

a) a central planning system has a group of people who decide what is needed in what quantity across the economy

b) a capitalist system uses "price signals" to communicate what is needed 
22/ Our current capitalist system has many flaws and areas for improvement (maybe some parts of crypto can help) but the idea of using "prices" to communicate information is a great idea.

(econ nerds, we are going to assume away externalities for another day) 
23/ What do I mean by "prices"

Imagine that everything about NYC is the same but you owned the only pizza shop in NYC.

The demand for your pizza would greatly outstrip your supply of pizza.

Happy times! You raise prices, start stacking up the profits 
24/ But wait, me, aspiring entrepreneur, waiting in line for my $20 slice of pizza start doing some math.

How much do rent, flour, tomato sauce, pizza flippers cost?

Wait, they cost $2 per slice? This guy is making $18 profit PER SLICE?! 
25/ Time to drop everything and launch "6529 Original Pizza"

Just like the other pizza shop, but we sell slices for $18/slice (not $20/slice) and are still thrilled to make $16/slice. 
26/ Does the story end here? Nope. Your friend Sally is also handy with a brick oven so here comes Sally's pizza at $15/slice.

And this repeats over and over until NYC has thousands of stores fighting to sell you a slice of pizza for $1 to $5/slice 
27/ Here is the important part.

On average, the average pizza slice shop and its owner and its employees are *just about getting by*

Money does not seem at all like a game to them, they are working all day near a hot oven, crankign out the slices and they do "meh, ok" $-wise 
28/ None of the people working in the shop are at any risk whatsoever of making $20M, even in their wildest dreams.

is it because they are not bright? is it because they are not hard workers? is it because they are less worthy?

no, of course not, none of those things at all 
29/ The reason that the average pizza shop and pizza shop employee in NYC do "just OK" is because selling pizza in NYC is just about as close to a perfect competitive market as you will find in a big city like NYC.

Product/pricing is clear and barriers to entry are low 
30/ If anyone is making "excess" profits, someone else will come and compete with them, offer the same product for less, and steal their profits.

So the market settles into:

crappy slices: $1
ok slices: $3
deluxe slices: $4-$5 
31/ You can make a living slinging slices in NY, but, on average, you won't get very rich.

This is the capitalistic system working *exactly as intended* - the capitalist system is meant to return the excess profits to the consumer, not to the greedy businessman. 
32/ So yes it might suck to work all day and only be able to sell your slice of pizza for $3, but on the other hand, for the 99.9999% of people who are not working in a pizza shop, well it is AWESOME to get pretty decent meal for $6 in the most expensive city in America 
33/ And to the degree that this is happening in other fields, it is good for the pizza worker too.

Because everyone else is fighting to win market share, improve quality and reduce costs in every other industry too, so pizza worker will also buy better products for less 
34/ OK, so what? This classic microeconomics, assuming away all the cases where it does not work as designed (corruption, bad regulation, "externalities" and so on).

Where is the *game* you are talking about?

This just sounds tough, a rat race, the grind. 
35/ The game is this.

You will only make good money if you find a way to *avoid perfect competition*

This applies whether or not you are running a business or running your own career.

You have to find a way to have:
a) something people want
b) not easily copied 
36/ The game is learning to read the price signals.

Money-as-an-information-processing-system is designed by society to deliberately send messages

"lots of profits" -> send more societal resources here
"lots of losses" -> take away societal resources from here 
37/ This is an excellent guide, an excellent system, an excellent game, but to have a chance of succeeding in it, YOU HAVE TO KNOW THE RULES OF THE GAME

You have to read the price signals the way they were intended to be used 
38/ If you find that you are dissatisfied with the salaries people are offering you.

If you find that you are not happy with the income your business is earning.

You have to detach from your emotions, detach from "but I need money for X" and put a different lens on 
39/ The lens you need to put on is "why is the game sending me this signal?"

The generic answer is of course "the game is not valuing your contribution as much as you would like because either there is no demand for your service or lots of supply for your service" 
40/ And the generic next step is "figure out what can I change about myself or my business" or even "maybe I should be in a different field altogether"

And your filter for "are these good ideas?" is "how much supply is there relative to demand?" 
41/ At a personal level, this is an easier and more satisfying exercise.

The generic answer is: "add skills"

The more advanced answer is "add skills in different areas until you are a 1/1" 
42/ There are lots of, say, bookkeepers in the world and they earn a 'perfect competition' type salary (not bad, not great).

There are very few bookkeepers with crypto expertise and they earn a much much higher salary 
43/ I suspect there are close to zero bookkeepers with crypto and NFT expertise, who know off the bat how to account for LooksRare tokens and Nouns PFPs.

A bookkeeper of this type can basically name their rate because they are a 1/1 in an area with demand and money 
44/ Note that this is not some type of super-duper challenge.

The person who has learned to prep financial statements has all the cognitive power needed to learn how to look up opensea transactions on etherscan and figure out the debits and credits.

it might take 6 months max 
45/ And yet I am sure there are millions of bookkeepers worldwide who are dissatisfied with their current income and probably <25 who can do NFT bookkeeping with no supervision or training at all.

It is wild if you think about, but these type of "market inefficiencies" happen 
46/ Now, in time, the market inefficiency will close.

More bookkeepers will learn how to read etherscans and their billing rates will normalize again.

But that will take years, you will make a lot of money until that happens and then you go on to the next thing 
47/ One thing I think @ScottAdamsSays is right about is that it is easier in your personal life to build differentiation by adding skills horizontally.

Being the top 1% of something is hard.

But being the top 25% of 5 things is much more manageable and might be just as good 
48/ The same rules applies to business but it is much harder. The average bookkeeper does not think like this, you can find the gaps.

The average successful businessperson *does* think like this so most obvious opportunities are already gone 
49/ In fact the risk in business is to think like this but in practice be a "mid"

You think you have found a market gap, but most of the time you just have not understood something about the market that the better players know.

I lost a lot of money this way! 
50/ I have had many different careers, roles, businesses and products.

It is very hard in business and when I was younger I made a lot of mistakes.

Usually of the type above - I thought I found the market inefficiency but it was a mirage 
51/ In the NFT space a lot of people, particularly the artists, are somewhere between 'having a career' and 'running a business'

It is very clear what you have to do to avoid "perfect competition" - you have to develop a distinct voice or style.

Easy to say, hard to do 
52/ In any case, almost every rich person I know and literally every uber-rich person I know thinks about it this way.

They are trying to solve a puzzle, they are trying to unlock the part of the market that is not perfectly efficient.

They are, in effect, playing a game 
53/ So, tl;dr:

 In a capitalist society, you are playing the price signals game whether you like it or not
 Most people do not realize it so it is hard, stressful, confusing
 Some do, it is still hard, but you know the rules of the game, so you have a chance 
54/ Good luck with your personal journey, that is ALWAYS bumpy, always difficult

As the Making It Thread says, money is not the only thing, not even the most important thing.

But at least if you are playing the game, better to know what game is being played 
55/ If you got here for the first time through this thread, the game we are playing here is ensuring the metaverse is built on open systems, not within 1 or 2 tech companies

Lots more about that there




1/
"Noooooooo, you can't just mint a PowerPoint slide"

Me: "Yes I can"

Meme Card #24, has just dropped in the freestyle category.

I have been wanting to CC0 this framework for others to use. No better way than within The Memes

2/ This is a free airdrop of 420, to all Gradient hodlers, some meme card hodlers and some @unicmetaverse mintpass hodlers

In 2035, when Jeopardy asks "what was the first major NFT collection with a PPT slide?" well, you will know the answer. 
3/
Are PPT slides art? Dunno
Will The Memes switch to Powerpoint: LOL no
Is it fun to try new things? Yes!

Enjoy, have fun, and let's also spread the word in a format that the, umm, more "serious" people can understand

Next week, we will meme again  
4/ Details of the drop mechanics are here




Missing some Tweet in this thread? You can try to force a refresh

1/ On Some Very Gentle Tradart Post-Merge Carbon Trolling

(a mini-thread so we can find the tweets later)


2/

3/

4/

5/

6/

7/ And if we want to be serious for a second, the carbon footprint of a piece of high-end contemporary art is not the canvas, it is the ecosystem that supports it.

Any important piece of tradart has a huge externalized carbon footprint that nobody even thinks about 
8/ Art festivals seem to involve:
 People flying to exotic locations around the world
 Hotels
 Exhibition halls
 Parties
 Taxis

If all this carbon was allocated to the tiny # of pieces shown, well, it would not be pretty 
9/ Museums are also a carbon inefficient way to promote art

 A large building that cost a TON of carbon to build and heat/cool/operate

 Visitors have to fly or drive from around the world to see said museum

Allocate the above / # of pieces on display and it won't be pretty 
10/ Now am I saying this because I believe museums should be banned and forced to shut down to reduce the carbon footprint of humanity?

No, of course not.

But if I used the logic of NFT critics, then I should presumably. 
11/ But very few NFT critics or crypto critics are really criticizing the thing that they are nominally criticizing.

Mostly, it is some form of "i don't like change" that is at play and they will seamlessly move on to some other vector of complaining 
12/ We will see this post-merge.

The environmental criticism of NFTs is now flipped; NFTs and metaverse galleries are for sure more carbon efficient than trad art

Will we see articles congratulating NFTs for saving the environment?

LOL, I doubt it tbh. 
13/ This is not really a post about TradArt (trad art is great!) or about carbon (art is, in no way, an important driver of carbon usage) but about crypto.

Crypto really bothers a lot of people viscerally, shakes their world view.

And so they latch onto things to complain. 
14/ BTC is on its own mission, but post merge, it will be interesting to see the narrative on ETH NFTs w/the carbon argument gone.

All you are left with is "bubble" which means "collectors are giving too much money to artists" which is really an amazing thing to complain about 
15/ So no, we are not going to go harass our TradArt friends about their anti-environmental ways  

But I think a little bit of gentle help with updating their priors is ok.


good coverage on the technical limitations of royalties, though I still think they are socially enforceable

Also, I think harberger taxes are an absolutely terrible, regressive idea for cultural goods (50x worse than royalties) but \_()_/

2/ Harberger taxes sound good in academic textbooks (efficient!) but there are good reasons - transaction costs & the fact that people overvalue what they own (psychologically) - that we don't actually implement them. Leaders would be immediately voted out or defenestrated. 
3/ Harberger taxes charge you a property tax on the value of your property you set, but you have to be willing to sell at that price.

So lets say you happily own a house, you put the accurate and fair price for your house and your house gets sniped 
4/ Well, there might be perfectly good reasons you don't want to move even at the fair market price (it is a pain in the ass, you are emotionally attached to the house and so on).

So the taxes hurt non-financial buyers in favor of financial buyers. 
5/ In other words, Blackstone would be happy with harberger taxes on their vast real estate portfolio because they are not emotionally invested in the 46,548th house in their portfolio.

You, regular family, usually are emotionally invested in your house. 
6/ So Blackstone will put the "fair" market price and pay lower taxes and you, who do not want to disrupt your family, will put a higher price and pay more taxes than Blackstone for the exact same value house

Helping Blackstone at the expensive of regular families is regressive 
7/ Harberger taxes are regressive in other ways - they benefit the liquid (who can pay the tax and/or snipe assets) at the expense of the illiquid who happen to have an asset but might be in a tighter liquidity position. 
8/ It gets worse for cultural goods like NFTs.

At least in the physical world there is a theoretical argument in doing this under the theory that certain goods are scarce (e.g. center city land) and the harberger tax will ensure it goes to the best use. 
9/ In other words, you can't afford to squat on land in center city in a harberger tax regime because you are not generating enough cash flow from it to pay the tax.

So it 'forces' the market to get the land in the hand of the most valuable user faster than pure supply/demand. 
10/ For cultural goods like NFTs, this is nuts.

NFTs are not rivalrous and society has no incentive that the holder of an XCOPY has to drive cash flow from it.

In fact, museums are built on the opposite theory - spreading accessibility to public cultural goods 
11/ A harberger tax would be great for @6529capital because it would mean that every hodler would have to quote us a price constantly & pay a tax the higher the price was.

So it is directly in the interests of the fund (more liquid than average hodler) but it is a terrible idea 
12/ It is the exact opposite of "seize the memes of production" - it is "make sure the memes of production are always in the hands of the person who will most aggressively drive cash flow from them"

Royalties might have XYZ flaws, but harberger taxes are 100x worse

/fin 

1/ On Royalties II

First, please read this, my initial take on royalties, I still stand by all the below and want to build on it

Take your time, read it and come back. I'll wait.


2/ Last time I took for granted the topic of "enforcing it technically is not feasible"

It looks like we are going to have to cover it in greater detail because I think people are going to delude themselves and go down dead-ends 
3/ It is very hard (I think impossible) to enforce royalties technically at the base level without making the token unappealing

Just off the cuff, some simple workarounds - wrap the token, go wallet to wallet, deploy a trust-free custom swap contract, fractionalize, gnosis, etc 
4/ Now you can theoretically make a contract that will try to to block all these workarounds, but at the end you no longer will have an NFT.

You will end up with some permissioned JPG that will be completely unappealing 
5/ The reason is that you cannot just enforce a 'denylist' of unapproved transfers (Sudo or x2y2 or whatever) since there are basically an unlimited number of ways to transfer and avoid royalties, including deploying new contracts. 
6/ So an artist drops a contract that says today says "you can do these 5 things" and then the collector has to have confidence for the next 1, 5, 20, 50 years, the artists/devs will be around and responsive to update the contract to allow new things.

Yeah right...no way. 
7/ Royalties are a social contract, not a technical contract, they are situation specific and part of a toolkit.

Let's think through a well-known example - BAYC and punks and where they might be socially enforceable or not. 
8/ BAYC has always had a strong "we are going to provide utility to you" orientation - whether that is ApeFest or Otherside or new drops and so on.

So Yuga has a lot of leverage to socially enforce BAYC royalties without touching base-level censorship. 
9/ Let's say Sudo or x2y2 gain a lot of market share on zero royalty BAYC trades.

I think basically Yuga has sufficient leverage to say "any BAYC bought on Sudo or x2y2 without a royalty being paid" is banned from ApeFest, Otherside events, airdrops and so on. 
10/ I'm not recommending this per se, nor am I saying that the Yuga royalties are high or low relative to what is delivered in utility.

Just saying that, as things stand today, for most buyers the cost of being cut off from future utility is higher than paying the royalty 
11/ The punks by contrast are a different story. They are used to no royalties, they trade on art/provenance and not on utility.

If Yuga tried to add royalties to the punks, I think they would be mostly ignored.

Why so? 
12/ Well, first of all the punks don't expect utility, LL and Yuga do not provide utility to the punks and I am hard pressed to imagine what utility could be provided that would not be mostly negative.

I don't think the average punks holder is hoping for PunkFest '23. 
13/ In other words, on "utility" if Yuga said "we are adding BAYC style utility to punks but you have to pay royalties", I think many punk holders would be "it is ok, i am happy to skip PunkFest 2023"

So then you can imagine more aggressive approaches... 
14/ ...like "I am going to yank your punks commercial license without royalties"

This is probably too aggressive, value destructive.

I think a sufficient number of punk holders would ignore this too and then Yuga has to sue its own customers.

Never ends well 
15/ So as things stand *right now*, I think Yuga could socially enforce royalties on BAYC & probably cannot on punks.

This has to do with the specific way each collection has and is being run

Like everything else, royalties are a toolkit and make sense within a specific context 
16/ But wait, I am a 1 of 1 artist, I don't provide this type of utility, what do I do?

Well, your relationship with collectors is multifactorial - do they flip, do they help you, do they pay royalties, do they support your auctions?

You can decide who to work with... 
17/ "but 6529, there is no way 10% royalties are a Schelling point for a token, it is going to be competed lower"

OK, maybe.

That just means there is free money on the table for you, potential creator, to build a more successful collection with no royalties. 
18/ Just to be clear that I am not subtweeting @punk4156, he has done exactly what someone with his views should do.

Nouns reflect his actual beliefs on how a PFP collection should operate - CC0, no royalties, creators keep 10% supply, DAO treasury.

This has my full respect. 
19/ In a free market economy, the correct way to express your belief that someone is charging too much for their product ("royalties") is not to try to steal their product ("ignore the royalties") but to offer a competing product cheaper ("no royalties")

@punk4156 did that 
20/ Now over to team "fungible token" that is like "ha ha ha, can you believe NFT projects charge ongoing fees"

"ha ha ha, imagine if we forked BTC and ETH to take out block rewards and transaction fees."

Think how much money we could save! 
21/ Long-term incentive alignment is a hard problem, particularly in permissionless systems.

A model of "creators get paid up front and never again" is a great setup for rug city.

Be careful what you wish for.


22/ Tl;dr

Contract level royalty enforcement is a dead end
Royalties are a social contract and inseparable from the overall project design
People should respect what creators do
People perfectly free to compete with their own different projects 


1/ Friday night fun

OK just blew through my beta test free credits on @StabilityAI

Some fun outputs.

2/

3/

4/

5/

6/

7/

8/ Good fun was had by all



1/ It is a World First today - the first double drop of The Memes cards in one day, both supporting the Open Metaverse meme.

Card #11 ("CyberMetaverse") has has dropped from the very unique and distinctive @cyber_humanoid in distinctive @cyber_humanoid style!!! 
 
2/ And many of you know @rakesh_pulapa and his amazing aerial photography.

Meme Card 12 ("OMSeized") is an OM-based choreography captured from the air that I have watched a zillion times and am still impressed by.

Very OM, much @rakesh_pulapa 
3/ Airdop is done for both.

Allowlists and distribution mechanics are here:

6529.io/collections/th

6529.io/collections/th

You can mint both at:
thememes.6529.io until Monday (scroll down as needed) but remember there are more AL spots than cards available

http://thememes.6529.io

OMSEIZED ALLOWLIST
ALLOWLIST FOR OMSEIZED Address AL Spots 0x0887773b5f43c58f0da7bd0402fc2d49482eb845 15 0x57c25777bd6dffb3251306c0a6449bebb58a7af0 12
https://6529.io/collections/the-memes/meme6-season1-card2/omseized-allowlist/

CYBERMETAVERSE ALLOWLIST
ALLOWLIST FOR CYBERMETAVERSE Address AL Spots 0x0887773b5f43c58f0da7bd0402fc2d49482eb845 16 0x57c25777bd6dffb3251306c0a6449bebb58a7af0 12
https://6529.io/collections/the-memes/meme6-season1-card1/cybermetaverse-allowlist/
4/ I really love that The Memes are so obviously linked to the worldview and vision and style of the artists making.

For those in secondary market, they can be found here


1/ On Being Efficient With Busy People

This is a thread for people at junior to mid stages in their career (people at senior levels generally operate this way and, at very senior levels, they all operate this way).

It is updated for 2022 practices 
2/ First the obvious, but still not really obvious until you have lived it.

Any sufficiently senior level person in any field - business, non-profits, art, entertainment, government, athletics and so on - is very busy. 
3/ "Very busy" in this context does not only mean "lots of things to do" as in "lots of work to do" but also typically a huge inbound information flow.

Emails, calls, zooms, IRL meetings, text msgs, twitter DMs, discord, whatsapp, telegram, signal 
4/ Every year the information flow gets worse.

It used to be: letters + email + phone calls + text messages and even then we thought we were busy.

Now it is wild - i look at hundreds, possibly thousands of messages per day, on a variety of topics. 
5/ So you want something from a busy person.

That busy person might be your boss or it might be someone not in your organization, someone you are reaching out for something you want.

What should you do? How should you think about it? 
6/ The first question, more typically relevant at work, is "do you actually need your boss or is this just a crutch?"

In other words, can you go ahead and finish the task you were doing without further input, take some decisions yourself, and bring a finished product 
7/ This is very situation specific.

It depends on the task, on your own skills, on your boss's managerial style and temperament.

So you have to judge your own situation and maturity and capability. 
8/ But the *general* rule of thumb is that senior level executives who have other senior level executives reporting to them, do not want meetings and reports and so on.

They just want the job done.

My favorite reporting relationships are those where I am needed the least. 
9/ So over time, and as a general rule of thumb, and based on your own professional maturity and capability, if it is a low-risk decision (severity, amount of work involved), consider if you should make the decision yourself, and bring a finished task to the table. 
10/ You noticed I said the word "decision" here.

A "decision" is really the only reason you want to reach out to someone with a request.

People sortof know this in their gut, but not in their mind and this makes their approach inefficient 
11/ So let's go to "how to ask for a decision"
1: What is the decision?
2. What data is needed for the decision?
3. Do you have the data? (if not, go get it)
4. What decision would YOU make with that data?
5. Do you still need to ask for a decision or did you just make it? 
12/ If you have gotten to Step 5 and you still need a decision, then the correct structure for asking it is

1: This is the decision I want
2: Here is the data for making that decision
3: Here is my own recommendation, given the data in #2
4: Please let me know if you agree 
13/ The goal is to have enough information in 1 shot for the person to be able to answer you.

I tell people my response time is bimodal.

Either "within a day" or "never" is a reasonable approximation.

Why? If I can't manage it in the current inbound flow it gets buried 
14/ So nothing is more professionally satisfying than to be asked something in a format above where I read the situation and the person's analysis and recommendation.

And I can send my favorite reply of all: "yes" or "ok" or "proceed" or "i agree" 
15/ A short detour to highlight the worst DM of all time

"Can I ask you a question?"

This is utterly pointless because if the answer is going to be "no", then it would be "no" anyway and if it is going to be "yes" you wasted a cycle 
16/ Also not great

"Can we hop on a call?"

There are [x] people personally and professionally important enough to me to get a "yes" to this, but it is not the majority.

Let me explain why in the next tweet 
17/ The way calendar software works, is that it pushes you to half hour meetings.

To take some limit case that every half hour was a meeting, it means that I can make 10-20 decisions per day.

The real number to keep my life in order is at least 10x that. 
18/ So "calls" become very "expensive"

Zoom > IRL Meeting
Email > Zoom
DM > Email
Solving The Problem Yourself > DM

Most (non-sales) calls are 15-20 minutes of filler that could have been read in advance with 2-5 minutes of "discussing an actual decision" 
19/ It is very possible that some of you right now are reading this and saying "my goodness, 6529 sure thinks he is important"

also, why did he not answer my DM/follow me/etc

To this I can only smile and say "I hope one day you end up in this situation and you will see" 
20/ At the limit case, this is how all super senior people operate.

My DM chats with the most senior people I know (where I might be the junior party in the chat) are something like:

2-3 sentences from me; 1 sentence back.

Maybe we had a call once or never. 
21/ There are no absolute rules in life, you need to use judgment for your specific situation but tl;dr

Make a decision
OR
Make a recommendation
AND
Communicate it in one, compact, organized shot

And enjoy your professional development along the way  

1/ On Solving Problems On-Chain

So, conventionally, this is about the time I'd start a podcast.

But I prefer bold experiments so I've been chasing partners and people all summer to try something that has never been done before

What is that? 
2/ This fall, with the help and forebearance of the teams at @unicmetaverse and @oncyber, and the most amazing roster of guests and instructors, a team of us are going to try to run a university course 100% on-chain and in @OM100m.

What does this mean "on-chain?" 
3/ What it means is that someone will be able to enroll in, attend the course, attend the lectures, graduate from the course and do it 100% with NFTs as the database of record (no centralized database).

It is hard to do! 
4/ Let me get the basics out first because @unicmetaverse already tweeted them and then come back to the "what does on-chain mean"


Free MOOC on NFTs and the Metaverse
NFTs AND THE METAVERSE An open introductory course to NFTs and the Metaverse, delivered on-chain and in the metaverse. The University of Nicosia (UNIC) has been a leader in cryptocurrency education
https://www.unic.ac.cy/openmetaverse/mooc-nfts-metaverse/
5/ Going to now retweet their thread

24/ Now, back to me again.

As you can see, the instructors and guests are incredible.

I can't wait to listen to all the sessions. And if we get a good group of participants, we can have great discussions

And it should be great onboarding for your NFT-curious friends 
25/ The interesting and difficult part is going to be the 100% on-chain part.

My view of the open metaverse is not, in the end, only about art or even gaming.

We have to see if we can push larger aspects of our lives into decentralized spaces... 
26/ And there it gets very tricky.

Companies, industries and organizations have built good information systems that work for their needs.

The on-chain versions don't exist, are confusing, are primitive, present new challenges and, day 1, are inferior 
27/ So we are in vastly unchartered territory here and everyone is going to be scrambling in real-time to see if we can do it.

@rayan_oncyber is working on token-gating and support for larger multi-user groups in @OM100m 
28/ @unicmetaverse is trying to to solve how to do exams on-chain.

Broadly, the direction has to be zero knowledge proofs but I have never seen this in the wild.

So if you have ideas on this, please get in touch. 
29/ In general, I view this as a grand experiment for us, that we have to solve together.

We say that we can do things in a decentralized manner, time to put our actions where our mouth is and figure out if it is possible 
30/ @unicmetaverse has a discord but I am a bit afraid they are not ready for what it means when we all come marching in

Anyway, here it is.

31/ Also, the free mint pass to the course is a @6529er special, his reinterpretation of the @UNIC_ENG logo, along with a couple of Easter Eggs



32/ Also, I am still thinking about some additional guest lecturers.

I need to sleep on it for a day or two but we have some small gaps still - I am going to send some DMs and if by next week I am not fully satisfied I am going to ask for community help. 

1/
The Birth of Venus
Botticelli
1485

2/ Meditations on GM (Meme Card 10)
@aylaelmoussa
2022

High resolution video here:
opensea.io/assets/ethereu


https://opensea.io/assets/ethereum/0x33fd426905f149f8376e227d0c9d3340aad17af1/10
3/ The card has been minted, some of you have been airdropped, some of you have been allowlisted until next Wednesday (there are more AL spots than cards as usual)

Allowlist:

A MEDITATION ON GM ALLOWLIST
ALLOWLIST FOR A MEDITATION ON GM CARD Address AL Spots 0x57c25777bd6dffb3251306c0a6449bebb58a7af0 12 0x62DA56c6F6A58d9C0eFd4e67a9C05dD819f3019A 10 0x0a98f97e89743406a8611e1
https://6529.io/collections/the-memes/meme4-season1-card2/a-meditation-on-gm-allowlist/
4/ After the allowlist period is done, we go to public mint.

All the distribution details in the attached.



5/ The minting site is here as always: thememes.6529.io

But the allowlist minting is *not* working yet. Either I or @6529er will post once we have it working. 

https://thememes.6529.io
6/ As always mint price is 0.06529ETH and the card is CC0.

The @rakesh_pulapa and @cyber_humanoid cards are going to roll to next week because @6529er is going on vacation  

1/ On Royalties
tl;dr

Royalties are a social convention, not a technical convention
They are not perfect as structured
They will behave differently for different types of art
No-royalty people are mostly self-serving
Artists need a backup plan in any case 
2/ You cannot make royalties enforceable onchain and I do not think there is even theoretically a practical technical solution.

People pay royalties because they believe in the social convention of buying and selling within the rules set by the artist / creator. 
3/ Royalties as structured are imperfect.

Royalties in an "up only" market were ok for many people.

If your PFP value has dropped 90%, a lot of people feel put upon to have to pay royalties.

Correctly, royalties should be a tax on gains, not on losses but non-trivial to do 
4/ People emotionally feel differently about royalties between
1 of 1 or generative art
Well performing PFP collections
Poor performing or ruggish PFP collections

Hold this thought for later. 
5/ I do not have a ton of sympathy for the "I do not want to pay royalties" theory of the last few days

It is a perfectly fine opinion to have but then you should buy royalty-free NFTs

Not letting artists/creators set the rules of their game seems quite anti-capitalistic to me. 
6/ The anti-royalty crowd is something like this:
Step into a system with rules X
Effectively cheat that system
Say it was inevitable that others will cheat
Handwaving about "free markets" as if every real world market does not price transaction costs in. 
7/ If you buy a BAYC, presumably the price is already suppressed, because people are pricing in the royalty.

So sure, you can gain alpha relative to your peers by buying at the "royalty-suppressed price" and selling at a "no royalty price" but this is nothing to brag about 
8/ Similarly business models that promote as a competitive advantage "we do not honor royalties" are both lame and, at best, a temporary growth hack.

If it really works, then other markets will also not honor royalties and the competitive advantage will be gone 
9/ "But 6529 floor pieces of PFP collections are effectively fungible and we know that transactions costs reduce liquidity of fungible collections and they will do better without royalties"

This may be true!!!

But, but, but... 
10/ ...the morally correct thing to do is to put your money where your mouth is and invest in royalty-free collections (or mint one if you are so sure it is that easy).

"Sell BAYC, buy nouns" to express your belief in no-royalties is the way markets should decide royalties 
11/ "Buy BAYC at royalty suppressed price, unilaterally change the contract with Yuga in a self-serving way to sell without royalties" is not the morally correct way to do it.

Enjoy your 5% extra gainz I guess, but you are not getting a pat on the back from me. 
12/ Many things in society do not work on automated enforcement.

Eg. nobody legally forces you to tip waitstaff in the United States.

You can reduce your eating bill by 15% by never tipping.

But a) you would be a jerk and b) you load costs indirectly on those who do tip 
13/ "But Yuga is big corporate, I am barely making ends meet, why are you simping them", etc, etc.

Maybe all these things are true but setting a cultural principle in the NFT space that we can only do the lowest common denominator stuff reduces the design space 
14/ "Whatever you are being naive 6529. It is an anon/pseudo blockchain, markets route around transaction costs, etc, etc"

OK, this may be true, so let's play this out all the way and let's go to the artists' side for a moment 
15/Artist frens, are you getting anxious by all the crypto-pseudoeconomists telling you "royalties are doomed, this is just how markets work?"

Stay cool, 6529 Artist Blockchain Consulting Services are here to help. 
16/ As with all advice, it may not apply in your situation, these are just a series of tools that you can use in your own thinking.

The advice may apply differently if you are a PFP/Gen Art/1of1 artist, if you are famous, if you are rich, and based on what your goals are. 
17/ Strategy 1: Maybe they are right? Maybe your collection would benefit from zero or lower royalties?

Give the "it is just an altcoin" crowd a token set to play with, to buy and sell, to drive liquidity and as your collection improves, you can monetize with a follow-on drop. 
18/ Strategy 2: Maybe you are chill? You are a gen art or 1 of 1 artist with 100 pieces and a vibrant collector base.

Your work is too non-fungible to fit the model of an AMM. Most collectors pay royalties, sometimes OTC deals don't, you are still dropping primaries, all is OK 
19/ Strategy 3: Collect your own work.

You are making an edition of 20, keep 1. You are dropping an edition of 100, keep 10.

You ride along completely aligned with your collectors and prefer for them to HODL, not trade.

This is a very underused strategy by artists!!! 
20/ Strategy 4: Fight back

You think your collection is great, you want to keep the royalties, you are mad that a marketplace is making a royalty free market in your art?

Easy peasy solution. Ban any NFT traded on that marketplace from airdrops, parties, utility and so on. 
21/ When the buyer complains, refer them to the CEO of the no-royalty marketplace, along with your prior letter asking that marketplace to delist your collection.

When the CEO complains to you, explain to them how free markets on a transparent blockchain work. 
22/ I think we should avoid getting to scenario 4 because in the end it is bad for everyone.

I think the no-royalty = better market structure crowd has to make their case voluntarily, not coercively

Start with no-royalty collections or artists willing to tolerate the experiment 
23/ My view a year ago was that artists were too conservative on IP models.

I tweeted about it, I explained my views, I put my money where my mouth is and bought some CC0 art along with tons of regularly licensed art.

I did not violate people's IP unilaterally though 
24/ My view of free markets is that you do not coerce your counterparty by hiding behind "but it is impractical to prosecute me"

You vote your beliefs by transacting your beliefs with willing counterparties.

And the market will add it all up and decide. 
25/ So, yes, it is harder this way. Both collectors and marketplaces and artists need to think about the 1st and 2nd and 3rd order effects of their actions and talk it out.

One size does not fit all, we have a ton to learn and experiment with, but don't coerce people.

 
26/ If this is your first time here, we believe NFTs can be the basis for an open metaverse.

More here


1/ Always forward, never backward

Most people are wildly overconfident about how much they can predict their life path, particularly on alternative timelines.

Your alternate fantasy lives are not a Real Thing, you should not waste time on them. 
2/ "Path dependence" is the concept that future events are based on prior events.

That if you (or your organization or country) take one decision, it leads to a series of events but if you take a different decision, a whole different series of events will happen 
3/ What does this have to do with your real life?

Well, we make decisions all the time.

Sometimes we make very obvious mistakes.

Sometimes we make mistakes possibly are mistakes, but we are not sure.

So a very common feeling is to dwell on those mistakes or "mistakes" 
4/
"If only I had bought Bitcoin in 2011"
"If only I had I had married John, not Bob"
"If only I had taken the new job in California at the startup"

People, of course, only worry about these decisions when they seem to not be working out 
5/
Bitcoin went up in price (a lot)

Bob is a bit of slob, distant, seems a bit lost;
John is well-dressed, has a sparkling career and (according to Instagram) a rich family life

Your classmate who took that startup job has $50M worth of stock options 
6/ I am here to tell you to knock it off for two reasons:

 There is nothing you can do about it now

But much more importantly

 Your imagined alternative life is a complete fantasy for three reasons I will explain below 
7/ First of all, life is a series of thousands of different decisions and the path dependence of your alternative life is completely unknown.

Maybe you married John and were killed by a drunk driver on your honeymoon.

Maybe you bought BTC and developed a terrible cocaine habit. 
8/ It is a huge error to assume that your alternative life would be Everything The Same except for this one thing.

Once you step in a different decision-stream, then literally anything can happen.

Including, yes, you dead in a car accident. 
9/ The second reason is that the "grass is always greener on the other side"

Maybe John is a high-functioning alcoholic who cheats on his wife but is excellent at presenting a facade.

You never really know other people's lives, but we do know everyone has problems. 
10/ The third reason is "you"

"You" and your habits and beliefs are an inseparable part of how your life goes

If you were the exact same person you were who did not buy BTC, but, at that moment, you bought BTC, you almost certainly would have sold it in one of the bear markets 
11/ If you were the exact same person you are and married John, perhaps you would be incompatible

Perhaps would have lead to fighting and a divorce. Maybe you would have a kid who was a troublemaker.

You can't assume that John + you is the same as John + Kate 
12/ If you were the exact same person but took the tech job, maybe the job and environment would not be a fit for you.

Maybe you would have left for Google, maybe you would have been fired, maybe the company would not have done as well with you there. 
13/ Most people's happiness is actually fairly stable over time and is driven more by intrinsic factors than extrinsic ones.

Lottery winners and people who suffer severe disabilities tend to return to their baseline happiness within a year or so. 
14/ So, "your alternative more happy fantasy life" is almost certainly nonsense, distracting you from your real life.

Your real life is here, today.

And what you do today, will determine tomorrow and trigger the next set of path dependences for you and others 
15/ Does this mean you should not try to learn from your past decisions?

Of course not, you should try to learn new things from experience

Does it mean that if you made a mistake, you should not try to reverse it?

Of course not, if it makes sense to do so, sure, go ahead. 
16/ BUT, your starting point has to be TODAY

You have to look at what your situation is today, what choices you have in front of you today and try to do the best thing for yourself today

What alternative timeline may have happened years ago is now lost forever in the multiverse 
17/ The parable of "The Old Man Lost His Horse" is the soft version of this.

It covers the first reason above "you don't know what happens in other timelines";

I am saying it is even stronger - you are likely to be you regardless in other timelines

18/ Always forward, never backward

Today is the 1st day of the rest of your life

You have the extraordinary privilege of being alive right now, many of you in some of the best circumstances ever known to man

Make the most of it, don't waste time in a fantasy life


19/ If you got here for the first time from this thread, our main goal here is to ensure our future is open and free.

Lots and lots and lots of tweets there


20/ Related

You can never step into the same river twice 

1/ So, along with @awrigh01 @punk3178 @VonMises14 @phon_ro and some others, I have been advising this team that is working on a very hard problem - namely real-time valuations at scale across hundreds, ultimately all, liquid NFT collections.

2/ Warning! Sometimes the valuations diverge from reality, particularly the machine learning ones (NFTi).

Like all the valuation tools out there, it is correctly a beta product - read their disclaimer, basically it is not financial advice (obviously)


3/ Their work on historical market cap is really interesting.

Lots of flippening to watch in this video and their view is that, on a collection (not floor) level the punks have re-flippened BAYC a while ago.


4/ They have also have released a short (82 pages apparently is short if you are a machine learning scientist) teaser report.

I will read and report back on Monday.


5/ tl;dr
Interesting data, slick front-end, some things I have not seen before, I will be back on Monday with a fuller review of the report.

Website: nftvaluations.com
Twitter: @nftvaluations
Report Direct Link

Home | NFT Valuations
Building a robust market capitalization for important NFT ecosystems.

1/ We have reopened the minting for Meme Card 8, FirstGM

Trying something new.

The allowlist includes all 6529 NFT holders plus any address that holds an Art Blocks Curated / Playground / Factory.

This is about 38K addresses on the allowlist (!)

thememes.6529.io


https://thememes.6529.io/
2/ The goal of the FirstGM card is to be the most accessible entry into The Meme cards so I wanted way to have an accessible mint, but limit multiple mints.

So using ArtBlocks owners as a proxy for "lots of real people" (there will be some duplicates but can't be too bad) 
3/ As before, each address can mint only one FirstGM at 0.06529ETH (whether it is a 6529 or AB address).

The minting for this allowlist will be open for two weeks until August 15

Reminder the edition size is 6,529; holding 500 back from this mint. 
4/ We will be back to the regularly programmed Meme Cards minting, in the regular edition sizes, in a few days.

And by the end of the week, hope to have some nice infrastructure in place.

As always, have fun! 
5/ Oh, the allowlist is here:

6529.io/collections/th

Page might take a bit to load (there are 38K addresses) 

FIRSTGM ALLOWLIST 2
ALLOWLIST 2 FOR FIRSTGM CARD 

1/ On One Year of 6529

Today is exactly one year since 6529 first tweeted.

On July 23, 2021, 6529 had zero followers and was tweeting into the void.

Despite that, the first tweet was gm.

It is always gm, it will always be gm.

2/ So one year in, where are we?

What has happened?

How is it going?

What is coming next?

What does this all mean? 
3/ 6529 was created with a single purpose.

To help as many people as possible understand a specific idea.

To give them the intellectual frameworks and, possibly, practical tools to help them make that idea a reality in their own lives. 
4/ What is this specific idea?

The idea is that NFTs can serve as an open protocol representing digital objects.

That from this base we can build our increasingly immersive digital world ("the metaverse") on open standards, on a public commons, not in a company's database. 
5/ I don't think this is just an important idea. I think it is a constitutional rights level important idea.

It is not idea about technology or, god forbid, pixelated cartoon characters.

It is an idea about the nature of the relationship between the state and its citizens. 
6/ Our world is already highly digital (most white collar workers would be useless without the internet and computers) and will become more digital, more immersive every year forever.

So we should look explicitly at what this world looks like, what rights we have. 
7/ DC, Brussels & Silicon Valley share an identical worldview.

Their vision for the future is a handful of big tech companies and Central Banks owning 100% of your digital objects, including your money.

They will allow you to use them, so long as you don't piss them off. 
8/ This is a fundamentally anti-democratic vision, a regression to the Middle Ages of feudal lords, and serfs that served at their pleasure.

A world before fundamental human rights, before constitutional democracies.

An assault on the concept of ownership itself. 
9/ 6529 is here to fight for a different worldview, a view consistent with our existing constitutional rights.

That Facebook, the government and you live by the same agreed rules.

That anyone has the right to own a digital object, just like anyone has the right to own land. 
10/ This view is the "open metaverse"

This view is that ownership of digital objects is solved (crypto) and that interoperability of digital objects is also solved (NFTs).

No need for complex standards setting exercises.

Support NFT-based objects and Mission Accomplished! 
11/ Now back to 6529 since it is his birthday.

What have I learned?

Well, first I am shocked it has only been 1 year. It feels like 5.

This has been a Time Expansion Experience. 
12/ Why did I start fresh with 6529? Why did I start with zero followers and no credibility? Why did I make it harder?

Several reasons. The 1st is that I wanted to live the experience 100% natively.

I'd seen @gmoneyNFT & @punk4156, it felt like the NFT native approach 
13/ The 2nd reason is I wanted to test the quality of my ideas on NFTs and open metaverse.

In some OG parts of the crypto universe, alt-me is quite well-known and has intellectual credibility.

I wanted to let the ideas stand alone, live or die on their merits. 
14/ The 3rd idea is "focus" - alt-me has views on, say, what is the best slice of pepperoni pizza in downtown Manhattan.

But these are not important ideas. The fate of our society does not rest on if you get your pepperoni slide from Prince Street Pizza.

So eyes on the prize! 
15/ The 4th is security. I have taken quite advanced legal and technical measures a long time ago.

Even if someone ransacks my house, the Tulip will rest serenely exactly where it is today.

But criminals are usually dumb, no need to encourage them. 
16/ So those were the "practical" reasons 6529 was born.

The interesting thing for me is that 6529 no longer feels like a practical decision of "an alt account to tweet from"

6529 actually feels very very real to me now. 
17/ I do not have the exact language to describe this, but it is something like it is an alternative me, an alternative identity, but even more so an alternative something bigger than me.

I feel like I live in two parallel but completely real universes. 
18/ Physical world me of 366 days ago still has friends, family, professional colleagues as he did on July 22nd 2021.

99.99% of them have no idea about 6529.

I do not go to meetings or coffee and start yelling "SEIZE THE MEMES OF PRODUCTION!" 
19/ But 6529 also has his own equally real universe with friends, colleagues and all of you!

Some doxxed, some pseudo, some anon.

We work, we mess around on twitter and discord, we "grail art", we make really dumb jokes with 69s and 420s.

Also feels totally normal. 
20/ As far as I can tell, I have detected no new personality disorders emerging in me from this situation.

I am literally living in parallel in two different realities and it is totally fine.

As I am tweeting this, I am also having coffee with mom on the veranda.

It is fine 
21/ The ease of which this has happened is a huge learning.

When @balajis was tweeting that some day we will have pseudo identities, I thought "ok that is interesting, but I certainly don't need that - I have my dorky LinkedIn profile, I am all good"

And yet here we are. 
22/ I think one likely take-away is that avatars, multiple identities, different variations of doxxed, pseudo, anon, is something that many many people will do in the future.

We are still at the bleeding edge here, but it will become real for many more people soon. 
23/ Now time for the self-assessment, time to give myself my annual performance review. How well are things going 1 year in?

Time to go through everything 6529 has been up to and reflect on how it is going.

I grade on results, not effort because that is what counts. 
24/ Education (tweeting, etc)

I think this is going well among people predisposed to think this way (385K followers from 0 in a year is pretty good and I've spoken to most major crypto people 1-on-1 too)

But DC & Brussels don't get it yet

Y2 Goals: Broaden beyond crypto folks 
25/ Collecting / protecting culture

The 6529 Museum has 1,800 pieces, certain pieces and collections that are iconic, lots of lovely pieces and some duds.

Also the museum will not sell and will only display in decentralized places.

Also, I think the visualization in OM is good 
26/ I think this is a pretty good effort for 1 year.

What does the museum need to do better in Y2?

Outreach and education to non-NFT natives.

I would like to see further analysis, more writing, more contextualization, more outreach off NFT world, more events with artists. 
27/ 6529 Collections

The goal here is to spread the same messages but in visual shorthand, in meme, not in long nerdy tweetstorms.

The Memes will be the main vehicle

This is only about 1 month old so too early to judge, but encouraging so far. Will check again in 6 months. 
28/ 6529 Capital (the fund)

The goal here is:
a) to route the inevitable "institutional" money through NFT native collectors and
b) see there is a model to later tokenize the fund collections, keep them in decentralized spaces

Soon you have to click 'show replies' to continue 
29/ On the first part (a), I think the team is doing great.

@batsoupyum @krybharat @ACthecollector @phon_ro and @bonafidehan are out looking for NFT native grails and @6529Guardian and @itsjpower are handling the 'business' side. 
30/ On the second part (b), I don't have the solution yet and do not expect to for 2-3 years.

Finding a way to tokenize that is legally compliant and liquid tradeable is not trivial because of the SEC securities regulation.

So this one is in the brainstorming stage for now. 
31/ On Bridge which I have not explained to anyone yet, I am still brainstorming.

This is a pointless tweet ("I have not solved this very difficult problem that I have not told you what the problem is"), but I am putting it for completeness. 
32/ Finally there is @OM100m, an attempt at a truly open metaverse system.

This is the most complex one by far. It involves solving technical, social, legal and economic issues.

Its "competitors" are the mega tech companies with infinite money and employees. 
33/ I think OM is still in alpha, not even beta.

The hard part is not the technical part, I can see how the technical issues can be solved in 6 to 12 months.

The hard part is the community/social part.

OM will only work if we can coalese the power of "everyone" 
34/ My summary:

Education & Museum: Great, but need to do more outreach to non-natives
Collections: Fun! Next check-in Jan 2023
Fund: Good in short-term; things to solve in medium-term
OM: Fun! But needs to solve the social issues
Bridge: Just in my head right now 
35/ My summary (cont):

Education, Museum, Collections and Fund are mostly clear on what they are doing and what they need to do next. It is mostly execution from here, less about strategy.

OM and Bridge still need to make some mental leaps. 
36/ So 6529 has done a circle around the sun and I think it was a pretty good one.

Tonight, I will have an adult beverage on his behalf and then tomorrow gear up for Year 2. 
37/ I want to thank you all for being here.

Today we are ~400K, next stops are 1M, 10M & 100M, if we want to change the world.

Open Metaverse is not me, cannot be me. It is simply the sum total of all our actions.

If we want it, we can have it, it is up to us.

lfg 

1/ Some Things I Am Learning Minting NFTs (an ongoing thread)

You cannot learn how to do things simply by watching others doing them.

You can only learn the reality, both technically and how you feel about it, by doing it yourself 
2/ I have always "forced" myself to try new things - blogging, tweeting, VR goggles, BTC wallets, BTC nodes, NFTs.

I am always shocked when people write opinion columns like "I have proudly never used BTC but here are all the reasons I am sure it is bad" 
3/ So in this spirit, I have minted progressively more complex NFT collections since last August:

6529 Intern
6529 Gradients
6529 Raw
The Meme Cards

I am finally feeling like I have learned enough to start having some initial opinions so here we go 
4/ The single most surprising thing to me is how anxious I am when I mint.

I drop a 6529 Raw photograph and 30 seconds later I am refreshing the site to see if anyone bid.

Then the long wait until the end of the auction period ("will there be other bids this time???") 
5/ It is impossible for me to overstate how irrational this is on multiple levels.

First of all, there is basically no chance that a 6529 NFT will fail to sell.

There are 385K of us here, mints are always priced low, someone will always mint it and I know this rationally. 
6/ 2nd, as politely as possible, the revenue from the minting is a small fraction of the amount of money I have spent & will continue to spend on buying NFTs.

And my NFT / crypto life is further firewalled from my physical world spending.

So it is not financial stress. 
7/ Third, it is not even my career on the line.

I think most people are here for the tweetstorms, for the open metaverse, not to judge me as, say, a photographer.

So a 6529 mint won't bomb and even if it does, it won't impact me financially or career-wise.

AND YET.... 
8/ ...I still get anxious.

The process of minting an NFT and saying "does anyone want to buy it?" is a form of vulnerability.

You somehow may feel "rejected" (by whom? by everyone?) if it does not sell.

It is not wholly rational, but it is a real thing. 
9/ In which case, my mega-learning here is "have sympathy for the artists" because most have all this stress but magnified 100x.

They may not have a large audience, the minting revenue may pay their rent, and their career may be tied to how much people respond to their art. 
10/ 2nd learning is that tooling to do a medium-complex mint, to manage allowlists, airdrops, communities, ongoing mints, is still fairly immature.

There are some good tools, but you need good people helping or you have to invest real time yourself to learn.

This will improve. 
11/ Third learning (and this is an important one to me), I think I have proven something with The Memes drops.

*** It is possible to do a high demand drop at a low price without gas wars ***

Most teams say either "gas wars " or "dutch auctions/high price" 
12/ Well I think it is clear that there is a third choice: "grind to build an allowlist"

Now this boils down to "do a lot of extra work in order to make a lot less money" so I understand why people aren't into it.

But know that it is a choice they are making. 
13/ 4th: Fighting Sybil attacks (ensuring users are unique) is really hard.

For the first few cards we just built an allowlist manually.

Then we leaned on that allowlist for future drops.

But that leads to concentration, so we need new ideas. It is really tricky! 
14/ 5th: We are still dependent on centralized services for identity and anti-sybil attacks.

Twitter accounts are a long way away from being perfect proxies for "real humans" but they are currently the best proxy we have.

This needs serious work. 
15/ 6th: We still need work on better decentralized oracles.

Many programmable / dynamic / interactive ideas work easily with an API.

But APIs are centralized single points of failures, won't last long-term.

We need more work here too. 
16/ Now that this thread is here and in place, I will add additional "learnings" and maybe also some more practical ideas that might be useful to others.

Also, everyone should mint and try to sell their mint at least once.

It will be a very enlightening experience  

GMooors

If you have ever replied "gm" to a "gm" from me *at any time BEFORE today July 21* and are interested in a potential allowlist spot for a gm Meme Card, please do this:

Reply to this tweet with your ETH address in a quote tweet of your gm reply tweet from the past

Just to be clear, you should do this in 1 tweet, not two.

Your reply with your ETH address has to include the original tweet where you replied gm to me. 
Also do not do this that does not include the original tweet.

Also, not a screenshot, a quote tweet please 

1/ Meme Card #7 - Aeroglyph6529 by @Reuben_Wu in his signature style from the freestyle meme will drop in the next hour.

It is the first smart and interactive card.

It switches from light to dark at 7pm and 7am local time and upon click. 
We want the card to last as long as Ethereum does.s / timezone but over years & decades the API will break, will change, the provider will go out of business

We want the card to last as long as Ethereum does

So we do a JS call to your computer's local time. It should last  
3/ Distribution: We took a snapshot of @Reuben_Wu and 6529 HODLers

4/ We made a forward committment to the block for randomization

5/ We did the typical airdrop to artist and 6529 team/museum

6/ We are doing some random free airdrops to @Reuben_Wu and 6529 HODLers

7/ We allowlisted to @Reuben_Wu and 6529 Holders.

6529 Museum and some internal distribution addresses got super lucky in allowlist so we took them out - we won't mint those.

8/ We will have a minting period for allowlist until 5pm UTC tomorrow and then we go public mint

I will come back in a bit when the airdrop is done and the site is live



1/ Wealth is a claim on other people's time

There are a lot of theories on what money is, on what wealth is.

Economists have written very long books on this. It is debt, it is the evolution of barter, it is an information system, etc, etc.

All of these are true in their way 
2/ And if you are a serious Austrian or Keynesian economist, assume for the purposes of this thread that I have read and understood these theories.

Today I would like to go in a specific direction, not a macro or micro-economic direction, but a conceptual one. 
3/ When I was a kid - maybe 10 years old - I would daydream how awesome it might be if one day everyone vanished and the world was mine.

The nature of the daydream was something like "I could drive all the sports cars" or "I could go jump in everyone's swimming pool"

(I was 10) 
4/ I got a little older and the daydream got a bit more sophisticated.

Maybe not everyone would disappear, maybe it would be me and my girlfriend and also maybe my "boys" and also yeah probably my parents should be somewhere, but not at the pool party with my girlfriend. 
5/ And then I got a little bit older and I realized this would get pretty boring actually.

Your friends are fun and cool but if you have to spend eternity with 10 people, what happens if you, umm, "drift apart"

And so I stopped this daydream. 
6/ And then I got quite a bit older and thought about it again and realized


This daydream wasn't a daydream but a complete nightmare because within days and weeks and months, without people, everything would collapse. 
7/ Gas for the sports car, chemicals for the pool, but, more importantly, power plants that provide electricity for the fridge, farmers that grow tomatoes and raise hogs, the supply chains that bring you bananas and coffee, the dentists who fill your cavities - it is all people! 
8/ Every single thing we use requires a vast endless global chain of people to get it to you.

Think for a second how many things needed to happen to get that Nachos flavor in your mouth.

For example, sunflower oil since it is in the news since Ukraine is a major producer

9/ It is obvious that you need farmers to grow the sunflowers and processing facilities to create the oil and trains and ships to get the sunflower oil to your country and trucks to get it to your grocery store and your grocery store to sell it to you

But that is only part of it 
10/ Did the farmer use a tractor to plough the field? You bet they did.

So start the vast supply chain of components needed to build a John Deere tractor. including the equipment used in the factory that requires its own supply chain. 
11/ Does your tractor use petroleum? Oh, ok, let's start the upstream, midstream and downstream oil and gas supply chain.

From Scots on rigs in the North Sea to French engineers in a refining plant to Greek shipowners with Filipino crews guiding the tanker to your country. 
12/ And who built the ship? Who made the engine for the ship? Who built the GPS navigation chip in the ship? Who is running the GPS satellites to guide the ship? Who is planting chili peppers for the stew of the Indian engineer on the ship?

It is a never-ending chain. 
13/ And that is just the sunflower oil. Now let's do it for the other ingredients.

And the factory that turns this into Nacho Flavor.

And the chemical engineers and the food science folks who run the factory.

And the universities that trained them. 
14/ The next time you bite into a Dorito, give a word of thanks for the millions of people (yes, millions) who each played a small role across the planet to make it possible for you to have that much Nacho flavor for only $3.29. 
15/ Sorry 6529, I am an organic fanatic, I would never eat that dirty Dorito.

Great! Then this applies even more so.

Organic food may or may not be more delicious or good for you but it is certainly less efficient to produce and needs more humans.

That is why it costs more! 
16/ I too have marveled at the joys of the organic food at the Whole Foods on Houston Street in New York (and marveled at the size of my receipt).

But I also look at that as a luxury good of a vastly wealthy society with a global supply chain. 
17/ The system that allows you to pick up grass-fed beef from Colorado and wild giant pink shrimp from Argentina and organic avocados from Mexico in winter in NYC is not some "back to nature" system, but a system that only a very industrialized globalized society can deliver. 
18/ Oh, you are not going to do that? You are moving to Montana to run your own farm, eat only what is in season, produce it all yourself?
a) I salute you (if true)
b) It is, possibly, not true
c) not having to spend all our time farming is a major societal accomplishment 
19/ We have cars and laptops and Caribbean resorts and airplanes and Netflix and Ethereum because we have freed up enough human brain cycles from food production to allow us to invent these things

This tweet is unironically true

20/ I hope I have convinced you that everything around you - the goods you buy, the services you enjoy, the procedures that keep you alive - depends on the labor of other people, all over the world, most of which you will never meet.

OK, so what does this mean? 
21/ Well, there are many things that I do not want to cover today.

How price signals in a capitalist system coordinate these activities.

How globalization is a good thing (but still some resiliency is good).

Classic Adam Smith Econ 101 
22/ What I want to come back to is simply this:

***Wealth is a claim on other people's time***

This might seem obvious but it is not how people think intuitively. 
23/ The more normal way people think is "If I am rich, I can buy stuff"

That stuff might be a mansion, a sports car, caviar, fancy purses or a Rolex.

But as your dad said "sports cars don't grow on trees"

What you are actually buying is the labor needed to make the sportscar 
24/ When I buy a bag of Doritos at the check-out counter I wonder what I am doing.

And what I think I am doing is sending (tiny) amounts of money to the Ukrainian farmer, French oil refiner, Texan chemical engineer to buy their recent labor that ultimately added up to a Dorito. 
25/ "Wait, you really think like this?"

Yeah, basically.

I check into a hotel, I buy a taco, I order a cocktail, half the time my mind races through "how does this hotel run, what are the labor costs, how was it built, how long will it last?" 
26/ And its rawest, the money I give ultimately translates into a successful business that translates into a salary for someone that translates into someone feeling excited (or obligated) to shower, get dressed and go to the SoHo Grand Hotel to mix a martini 
27/ This is how capitalism works, the worst system except for all the others we have invented so far.

The spending you do or don't do makes certain activities viable or not viable so you get more of the viable ones and fewer of the non-viable ones.

But this is still abstract. 
28/ Wealth is a claim on other people's time.

If you have $18, you can get Martini at the SoHo Grand and you are paying the bartender to mix it, the waiter to serve it, the manager to manage, the cleaning lady to clean, the farmer to make potatoes for the vodka and so on

29/ So from here start the interesting questions.

What is wealth?

Well, for many people it is the simple answer: the money in the bank account.

This is true, you can use the money to claim other people's time 
30/ A more financially sophisticated person will say "but this applies to stocks, bonds, private equity investments and so on"

No, you can't buy a martini with your limited partner interests in KKR's latest fund directly, but there is a pathway to turning them into cash to do so 
31/ OK, what about crypto? Sure, fungible tokens are like that too.

A small number of bars accept BTC, but you can turn BTC into USD and use it to buy a Grand Martini.

But online many people accept BTC directly - for example in exchange for ETH or Rare Pepes. 
32/ But think broader. Let's say you the general manager of a factory. You are an employee, you don't own it, but you run it

Do you have wealth by this definition? Do you have claims on people's time?

I think you do. I think you are in a way wealthy in other people's time. 
33/ What if you are exceptionally good looking, either as a man or as a woman, a famous actor or model?

Are you wealthy in other people's time? I think you are.

If Brad Pitt or Kimmy asked most people for a favor, most people would do it, even for free. 
34/ What about the President of the United States?

Is the President wealthy in other people's time? Incredibly so!

The President can impact to greater and lesser degrees the time of 2.1M employees.

And, through the power of the office, billions of people around the world 
35/ There is a reason that certain people are obssesed with the Presidency.

That reason is not the $400K salary.

Most people would say it is "power" I find this basically a useless construct.

What is more useful is "The President is wealthy in other people's time" 
36/ I find this to be a unifying principle, it allows us to understand why Jeff Bezos and Joe Biden and Brad Pitt and the Eric Adams are all wealthy in the exact same way.

They can make claims on other people's time. 
37/ Those claims are limited in different ways for different people.

Joe Biden cannot use the federal employees to build himself a yacht and is term-limited in his wealth.

But Jeff Bezos can't order 100,000 troops to potentially die invading a foreign country. 
38/ Regardless, on July 13, 2022, both Joe & Jeff are very wealthy.

They have claims on the only thing that matters in society -- people's time.

Remember, "stuff" is a distraction, it is not real.

Thinking stuff is real is the error that 10 year old 6529 made. 
39/ This also clarifies how you might feel differently about wealthy people.

Jerk kid of a billionaire blowing money on consumption goods - creates a feeling of revulsion in many. Why?

Well, because "should that jerk kid have a claim on so many people's time?" 
40/ On the other hand, Elon Musk has many fans (as well as the haters) and I think a coherent view might be:

"in the domain of electric cards and rockets, there is probably no better person in the world right now to have a claim on people's time" 
41/ As a society we have many mechanisms to store information about "who has claims on people's time" and they are (encoded) in different ways

Money and financial instruments (numbers)
Roles (org charts)
Fame, culture, religion (vibes) 
42/ So this is a way to think about the present.

And the present is decent, certainly better than the past, in terms of how we can encode information about an advanced economy.

Advanced financial systems, the internet, more developed orgs, make us more capable than the past 
43/ But can it get better? Can we open up more use cases? Can we fill in some niches?

BTC filled in some use cases that the traditional system did not do a great job at.

It is another tool in society's toolkit. Not the only tool, but another tool. 
44/ I wonder about NFTs. My sense is that they can encode some information.

I can give you a trivial, dumb case.

"Here is an NFT that gives you 10 minutes of 6529 helping you with threading your tweets"

It is a claim on another person's time; it is a minor form of wealth. 
45/ "But 6529, isn't this just a step backwards to barter? That card could be sold for money or someone could pay you money and skip the NFT?"

Maybe, could be. But it is not obviously true to me. I could imagine a case where I honor an NFT for something but not cash. 
46/ I can't tell you what that case is. I am not sure that case exists. But I have a sense that there is something in that direction. We will have to find out over time.

In the meantime, maybe you have a new framework to use.

"Wealth is a claim on other people's time" 
47/ If you are new around here, we are trying to make sure that the metaverse of 2030 is not a dystopian nightmare but open, fun and accessible to all

Lots of tweets here:

1/ I have gone ham on @dubhz0's collection "Scar Tissue", buying 5 of the 7 pieces on @foundation

foundation.app/@dubhz0

My photography heart spends a lot of time in visual places like this, in vibes like this, in subtle, non-obvious beauty.


dubhz0 (@dubhz0) | Foundation
photographic based nft explorations at the intersection of architecture + environment published online + in print
2/ I don't exactly want to say I was a bit bored of pretty sunsets a long time ago, but sortof.

Whereas that thin line of cargo ships is taut, pregnant but restrained.

The text for the collection is along these lines but tbh I was into the photos before I read the text

3/

4/

5/

6/

7/ This is technically strong photography put to the service of finding beauty in non-obvious things.

You can't take photos like this if you haven't first taken a lot of conventionally beautiful landscape photos.

@exlawyernft - I found @dubhz0 from your @0xDecaArt page 
8/ And @dubhz0 - I think these might be your first NFT sales???

If so, welcome aboard to Club NFT.
 

"content creator" is such a horrible term.

Fully web2 centric term; your job is to create content to allow the network operator to make money. 
i do not identify as a content creator 
one day the dam will break on this. it might take a few attempts but it will eventually break. 
artist. dancer. actor. musician. writer. educator. grandmother. nurse. engineer. curator. engineer.

those are what we are.

not 'content creators' 

1/ The airdrop for Meme Card 4 has happened 

Check your wallets collectoooooors

Allowlist addresses are here
6529.io/collections/th

If you are on the allowlist please send 0.06529 ETH here by 15:00 UTC on Friday, July 1:


NAKAMOTOFREEDOM ALLOWLIST
2/ Please *do not* send ETH if you are *not* on the allowlist.

If you appear on the allowlist more than once you can mint up to that many Meme Cards (0.06529 each)

After this phase closes, we will open up the public allowlist on Friday.

OS Link:

https://opensea.io/assets/ethereum/0x33fd426905f149f8376e227d0c9d3340aad17af1/4
3/ If you are bad at timezones, this is the time that the allowlist closes in your city this Friday.

08:00 San Francisco
11:00 NYC
15:00 UTC
17:00 Berlin
20:30 New Delhi
00:00 Tokyo (Saturday)

4/ Background is here. Have fun!

If you have any questions about the process, hit up @DarrenSRS

1/ Nakamoto Freedom is the 4th Meme card in Season 1 of The Memes and the 1st card of the Freedom To Transact Meme.

It is an homage to where it all began - Satoshi, BTC, the Nakamoto Pepe card and the genesis of our ability to be self-sovereign in the digital realm.

2/ This card is also by @6529er (the next cards will be collabs).

In homage to the Nakamoto card, the edition size of this card will be 300 cards.

It probably will be the smallest edition size in Season 1. 
3/ As before, @6529er and I dedicate any copyrights *we* may have in the composite transformative work to the public domain worldwide under the Creative Commons CC0 1.0 license.

But there are underlying elements (e.g. btc logo, pepes, etc) that are owned by others 
4/ Being practical, what we mean is that @6529er and I will not chase you around and DMCA you regarding any use of this card.

And I hope that nobody else does either. 
5/ Now what does Freedom To Transact mean?

My view is that without some basic ability to transact, all other constitutional rights may be put at risk.

The details are here - if you have not read, I encourage you to do so!


6/ Now distribution of this card will be as follows, with handy illustrated slides.

Step 1: We snapshotted all HODLers already.

7/ Step 2: We are going to use block 15040420 to generate entropy for our randomization of airdrops and allow lists.

This block should appear in about 2 hours; the important thing is that it appears after this tweet and therefore we don't know what numbers are in it.

8/ Step 3: We are going to airdrop 64 cards based on the chart below

9/ Step 4: We are going to randomly airdrop 30 cards to HODLers of Gradients and Meme Cards as per the chart below

10/ Step 5: We are going to allowlist all Gradient holders and a random sampling of other holders as per the chart below.

The allowlist price is 0.06529ETH

11/ Step 6: Allowlist holders will have until 5am UTC on Friday, July 1 to mint by paying here:


Why not a regular mint? Bc we are working to get 1155 lazy minting working with the standard @manifoldxyz contract


12/ Step 7: The remaining cards will be a public allowlist that we will select from Twitter.

We will be done by Sunday.

13/ What comes next?

We have some collab cards in the pipeline. I think they will be lots of fun.

Will the distribution always be like this?

You should assume nothing about future distribution. We are experimenting with different methods and approaches. 
14/ Why did you manually distribute the Genesis Memes?

To get broad ungameable distribution without gas wars and without high card prices.

We have substituted "human grind" as the anti-sybil mechanism.

I think these hybrid approaches are under-explored. 
15/ What did we gain out of this? Nobody paid more than 0.06529 on mint, nobody paid high gas and we have possibly the highest unique ownership of any non-trivial drop

The 3 cards have ~78% unique HODLers on Day 1 and if you exclude the 6529 Museum/Fund, they are ~88% unique 
16/ We will keep experimenting with methods for interesting distribution and will aim to reach a wide variety of communities, not just the usual suspect 

We cannot control what happens in secondary but we can do the work on primary.

Also we try to avoid extra work for you 
17/ Lastly a practical note, the overall collections account on @opensea is now verified (not the individual collections yet) so you can use this link to as the starting point.

17/ And the Memes and Gradients pages are verified on @LooksRare

Gradient
looksrare.org/collections/0x

Memes

18/ As always, let's have fun. Thanks! 


1/ Going for a walk...

2/ ...in the newly opened second section of the Museum district in @OM100m

oncyber.io/6529om


6529 Museum District
The 6529 Museum District is the alpha version of the first district of OM. For more info: 6529.io/om
https://oncyber.io/6529om
3/ This section is for you.

When we launched, we had thousands of artists, collectors and others who asked to join the district.

So we have built enough space to be able to accommodate up to 30,000 (though we will open up 1,000 at a time to keep monitor performance) 
4/ The new section is oriented in 4 neighborhoods, each with 7 buildings, a courtyard, a movie theater, lots of walls and, of course, a DJ booth.

The idea is that each neighborhood is a broad community and each building is a sub-community. 
5/ Tentatively, we are thinking of splitting as follows:

Generative
1 of 1
PFP* / Collectors / General
Ecosystem (services, media, finance, education)

* I expect PFP projects will be the first to spin off in their own districts (they are working on it) 
6/ I think over the next couple of weeks we have a discussion in the discord discord.gg/join-om on how best to organize the neighborhoods.

We should be live in July with this part of Museum district.

(new community districts starting in August) 

Join the OM Discord Server!
Check out the OM community on Discord - hang out with 25,765 other members and enjoy free voice and text chat.

7/ If you have not previously requested a space, you can do so here:


it is free, it is an experiment, we will be testing and changing anything and everything, until we are happy with the district 

JOIN OM GENERATION 1
OM is currently in alpha and we want to grow with all types of usage cases before beta. We are calling this Generation 1. It is free to join. We will try to add as many folks as possible, but we ca
https://6529.io/om/join-om/
8/
Q: How do I know what things will be?

A: There is lots of room for art and signage, the new section will come to life as we figure out who goes where

For now, go take a peek and have fun and/or join the discord 


6529 Museum District
The 6529 Museum District is the alpha version of the first district of OM. For more info: 6529.io/om
https://oncyber.io/6529om
9/ ps. make sure your browser is using your dedicated GPU 

1/ On Fixing NFT Rights Delegation

I am looking for volunteers to help write a proper proposal on this topic (go through to end of thread)

First please read this which is a good starting background on what we might want to try to solve


2/ In the 6 months since that thread, I am even more convinced this is important.

If we are going to scale to normal human beings, we need to:

a) allow people to hold NFTs safely
b) while allowing them to be full enjoyoooors of the fun things you can do with NFTs 
3/ I think many/most usage cases will not be "actively trading NFTs" but holding NFTs for art enjoyment, community access, utility or even representation of offchain rights and access

These NFTs should be by default in a multi-sig wallet that does not connect to random contracts 
4/ You should only go through the aggravation of unlocking that wallet / contract if you are planning to sell or give away that NFT.

You have to move all functionality of that NFT to a delegated wallet/s 
5/ Imagine, if you will, NFT NYC and a team that has 3 BAYC in a secure wallet.

You should be able to delegate "physical access rights" like "go to apefest" to 3 different team member wallets.

People can go party, NFTs secure in the multi-sig, no risk of scanning evil QR codes 
6/ Sidenote: A case like this creates interesting social side effects

One benefit is privacy -> you can use the NFT with some plausible deniability that you own it

One other benefit is physical security -> you can use the NFT with plausible deniability that you can move it 
7/ People will also rent their NFT rights in this model (whether formally on-chain or off-chain)

In other words, you, anon, can't make it to nft nyc.

Perhaps you rent access rights to someone.

Wait, is this bad? I want only "real" apes at ApeFest 
8/ I think it is neutral and the event manager can decide how they want to handle.

An event manager who wants to prevent this can ignore physical access rights delegation and insist on signing from the NFT wallet itself.

Or insist on doxxed/pseudo doxxed delegated wallets 
9/ I think most medium to large communities are going to allow this.

It is not like access is that strict, it adds value to the holder, it is consistent with many other large events ("take my tickets to the game") and so on.

Small hyper exclusive communities may block 
10/ But, in any case, nobody loses anything.

No event manager is *forced* to respected delegated rights but the ones who want to, can.

We need to expand the expressiveness of NFTs (safely) to get to the promised land.

This is a step in that direction. 
11/ My initial view is that interesting delegated rights are:

Receive airdrop
Receive minting rights / allowlist
Token gated spaces online
Token gated events offline
Display online
Character/game play
Sub-licensing

There might be more that we think of. 
12/ I think that these delegated rights should be allowed to be delegated to separate wallets.

e.g. I might want airdrops on my trezor but I am OK with delegated event rights being on my mobile hot wallet (since there is nothing of value there that can be stolen) 
13/ You might also have one person receiving minting rights but want to send someone else to play your character in a game.

My view is that thousands of applications will use NFTs so we will need a programmatic way to manage these rights. 
14/ Imagine for example that in 5 years there are 100 games that allow you to play a "punk"

Nobody is going to have time to do that. Many will not want to of course.

Others thought might want to gift that right to their friend, their kid, rent it to someone else, etc 
15/ You could even imagine that marketplaces emerge for these delegated rights if they are properly structured.

Floor bid of 0.01ETH to rent punk4372 for a game for a week

0.1ETH to rent this rental apartment for the night for Apartment NFT 
16/ NFTs will become very complex and represent many complex things, including things that are valuable.

We should hurry and get a proper system for doing this SAFELY now before more hacking disasters befall our fam and we end up with everyone on centralized systems. 
17/ It is not sufficient for us to just say "people should be smarter" about what they sign. We should make our default systems safer.

I am pretty smart and I have signed some contracts and been unsure.

I am pretty smart and have missed valuable airdrops bc of cold wallets. 
18/ We need to get to a point where people can have their long-term NFTs nicely locked away and then can play and have fun with their NFT rights with zero risk of losing their assets

It will make NFTs more fun too, without having to constantly do high-end op security every day. 
19/ A few ideas about the design solution:

a) It should be open and standards based (people can build proprietary solutions on top of it)

b) It must work at the level of the NFT, not at the level of the wallet

c) should be backwards compatible 
20/ It may be a dual solution:

a) that forward compatibility is done by having an extension to NFT standards

b) that backwards compatibility is by wrapping NFTs or writing to a certain contract/s (each project owner would have to sign that they respect that contract) 
21/ In any case, I think we should write a tangible proposal for community review to see if we can get this going.

I do not have time to lead; I am happy to be an active commentator.

If this is of interest to you and you are willing to spend time on it, please reply below 
22/ I am CCing:

@andy8052 + @punk4464 who are interested
@loomdart who had a friend working on this
@tokenproof who are in this space
@SeanMacAonghais @gnosisSafe who should participate

Let's see if we can get a smallish working group to draft something. 5-10 people is OK IMHO 

1/ On Why The Metaverse Needs Crypto

And, specifically, why the metaverse needs NFTs.

The tl;dr is that it is critically important that the ownership layer of the metaverse ends up on public blockchains not in private databases.

Read on for why. 
2/ First topic: What is the metaverse?

Is it Facebook? Is it Epic? It is Apple? Is it Otherside? Is it Decentraland?

No, in my view, the metaverse is none of those things.

The metaverse at the most abstract layer is the internet, but the internet with 2 distinctions. 
3/ The first distinction is that the visualization layer of the internet will get progressively better.

Today we have free global video conferencing and 4K movies on the internet. We did not have that before.

In a decade, we will have functional extended and mixed reality. 
4/ What is 'functional extended/mixed reality?'

Imagine something like a pair of sunglasses in size/weight/style.

These glasses will be able to switch between normal reality, augmented reality (digital objects overlaid on your field of vision) and virtual reality. 
5/ We will spend most time in augmented reality, not virtual reality.

Imagine augmented reality as breaking the tyranny of your laptop and phone screen.

Imagine walking down the beach, not picking up your phone to see a notification, just seeing it in the corner of your eye 
6/ Imagine a colleague teleporting into your office for a chat or brainstorming session and they more or less look like they are right there.

Man, if Zoom/COVID put a dent in business travel, can you imagine what teleporting will do? 
7/ You will on occasion pop into virtual reality.

Maybe with your colleague you want to walk around a room with data and documents, a virtual work space.

Maybe you want to see a hotel you plan to visit and walk through it, see the beach, see the pool. 
8/ But most of your time you will be in augmented reality.

For the type of knowledge worker (me) who anyway spends all day looking at screens, this should be an improvement to quality of life, not a reduction.

Less time on a screen, more time in a more natural UX. 
9/ And it is going to start to make physical location close to irrelevant for business purposes.

Basically except for the social part of eating / drinking, everything will be close to real-life, without the travel. 
10/ In the meantime, we will have progressively better 3D spaces on our computer.

Walking around and looking at an NFT gallery on @OM100m does not require special gear and is clearly better than seeing the NFTs on OpenSea in 2D. 
11/ You can of course go into @OM100m with virtual reality goggles as well, but in practice, today, VR goggles are still quite annoying - heavy, bulky, short battery life, dorky.

I spend 99.9999% of my time in OM on a laptop. 
12/ But it will be a progression, an incremental progression where browser based worlds will get better, augmented reality devices will get better.

Bit by bit, the visualization layer of the internet will get better until it is unrecognizably better (+/- 10 years) 
13/ As the visualization layer of the internet gets better, digital objects will become more useful and more important.

Avatars (2D and 3D), art, schoolwork, work work, 3D virtual spaces and hundreds of other things. 
14/ Not only will the objects themselves become more important, they will lead to different emergent behaviors.

We see this already with avatars and mixed eponymous/pseudonymous/anonymous communities.

Yes, it is the internet plumbing underneath, but
15/ just like social media changed human behavior on the internet, metaverse type experiences will further change it.

NFT Twitter + Discord + various virtual worlds is a form of early metaverse.

I feel like I am entering a different world here, not just some websites. 
16/ The most important question for the health of the internet/metaverse/human society in the 2030s will be decided now.

And that question is: "who stores the definitive ownership records of those digital objects"

There are two answers: a company's database OR a blockchain. 
17/ If we end up with "a company's database" we will end up with all the web2 dysfunctions, but worse.

SMTP is an open protocol that anyone can use so we don't have societal level fights on "who is allowed to use email"

Short messaging online ended up becoming Twitter 
18/ So we end up having the most absurd, surreal discussions on the topic of "who is allowed to use short-messaging" being dependant on "who is the CEO of Twitter"

There is no way this is the correct architecture for our progressively more digital economy. 
19/ It is a no-win situation for everyone, including Twitter.

Twitter cannot rank-order all 8 billion people in the world daily and decide each day who has been sufficiently naughty or nice to be allowed to have short messaging. 
20/ But if the metaverse ends up becoming something like today's social networks, with all your (important) digital assets behind an API key and a terms of service agreement, it will be much worse on multiple dimensions. 
21/ The first reason is rent-seeking.

Facebook is proposing taking as much as 47.5% of the revenue from each metaverse object

Why should anyone, especially any non-USA economy, want to give 50% of its digital GDP to Facebook?

That is higher than the most socialist tax rate! 
22/ The second reason is 'fear' -> the metaverse will be your persistent, ambient, digital reality.

If you can be banned, cast into the darkness, based on an algorithm flag or a random customer service rep, this is terrifying.

You could lose everything for no good reason 
23/ The third is political security.

It is bizarre enough that Twitter and Facebook are in the strange position of having to decide who won the election, if there is a coup in progress and so on.

This is 100x worse for other countries, who have no say at all in this. 
24/ The 4th is global national security. Augmented reality works by pointing a camera into your field of vision.

Imagine if I sent a camera to web2 executives: "wear this please, on your and your family's heads, stream to 6529 servers. don't worry, I have a privacy policy" 
25/ I would obviously be laughed out of the room. But this is what will happen in the coming years from tech giants.

And this security honeypot - live streaming views of everyone in the world, will be compromised by hackers and security services. 
26/ What are NFTs?

A standardized, interoperable, portable, decentralized, self-sovereign, user-controlled, cross-application method to store ANY digital object.

In the simplest terms, any application that integrates ERC-721, can integrate punk6529. 
27/ This is a vastly superior way to support innovation and interoperability.

Your web2 digital objects are trapped.

Getting an API key, seeing if your service is allowable and integrating with programmers every service with every other one is basically 'impossible", fake. 
28/ Whereas with an open protocol all these issues go away.

It is like hyperlinking or HTML.

Anyone who integrates the ERC-721 or ERC-1155 standard can integrate digital objects.

Today we have dozens of applications. One day we will have hundreds of thousands 
29/ It is in the end quite simple.

Anyone who says "no, I think NFTs are not the right place to store digital objects" should be asked "OK ser, in which company's database do you believe they should be stored and why is that better?" 
30/ [I think somewhere soon you will need to hit 'read replies' to keep reading.]

It is funny/sad/frustrating to watch politicians in USA/EU more or less vaguely identify the problems with web 2 and at the same time harass the solution, hit it on the head with a hammer 
31/ The answer to all these forced 'interoperability' rules and so on is staring everyone in the face.

You can have user-owned assets and identity today on public blockchains.

BTC is this for money. NFTs are this for "any digital object" 
32/ My view is that the USA should be promoting user-owned data for innovation reasons and every other country should be doing so both for innovation and for national/economic digital sovereignty reasons.

The digital economy will be massive in the coming decades 
33/ It will absorb most of the white collar economy and even take some market share from physical economy.

Of course we will have houses and restaurants and hotels and power plants, but progressively a larger and larger % of work/social/education will be digital 
34/ So if I were setting policy, I would do two things in this arena:

Encourage development of public blockchain based systems for digital assets/economies (easy to do)

Pour money into open-source visualization hardware (harder to do but a decent bet imho) 
35/ If this is your first time around here, we are fighting for an open metaverse.

Lots and lots of threads about it here 


1/ On The Memes

6/9/2022

A perfect genesis day for The Memes to come to life.

2/ The Memes is a collection with two objectives:

 To spread our messages far and wide, in as many places as possible

 To run experiments in emergent community behavior 
3/ What do I mean by our messages?

Well the Season 1 memes are:

Seize The Memes Of Production
WAGMI
Don't Let The Institutions Steal Your JPEGS
GM
Use A Hardware Wallet
Open Metaverse / OM
Freedom To Transact
Freestyle

Next season they may change. 
4/ Each Season will have 10 cards per meme, some of them made by the wonderful @6529er.

What we really hope for is most of them will be created by our vastly talented community, either solo or in collab with @6529er. 
5/ What is the model here? Well, the general model is:

The cards are 1155 manifold editions on Arweave
The editions will be large-ish
The prices will be low-ish
The licensing will be CC0-ish
The distribution will be changing-ish
The rules above are not absolute-ish 
6/ Today we are dropping the first three cards

1: 6529 Seizing
2: SeizeJPGs
3: Uncle Seize

I view these as the three genesis cards for The Memes, like Squiggle/Genesis/Construction token are first for ArtBlocks, like Nakamoto is first for Pepe 
7/ These 3 will have a large distribution (1,000 each; I expect most distributions will be smaller, but some may be larger).

About 200ish will be airdropped free to:
Gradient holders (snapshot was on May 30th)
6529 Raw and OnePepeBill holders
Extended 6529 team members 
8/ For the rest, mostly we will use allowlists with a mint price of 0.06529 ETH

Some community members have already been allowlisted
Will do some more allowlists and some public buying
100 stashed in 6529 museum 
9/ What is the inspiration here?

A bit of pepes
A bit of loot
A bit of CC0
A bit of community
A bit of fun
A bit of intellectual exploration

Let's look at the cards 
10/ Card 1 is 6529Seizing by @6529er and it is very cool, but there is more.

So a punk owner can make commercial derivatives of punks so that part is fine.

We can't place punk6529 itself into the public domain, but we believe that we can...

11/ ...place this transformative, critical work into the public domain.

In any case, @6529er and I dedicate any copyrights *we* might have in this work to the public domain worldwide under the Creative Commons CC0 1.0 license. 
12/ To be practical, @6529er and I are not going to chase you around and DMCA you if you use this work.

I do not see any reason for Yuga to do so and I hope they don't try either - nobody is going to confuse this with punk6529, the cryptopunk. 
13/ To be specific, the full cards themselves are being placed into the public domain, but they may contain elements (in this case punk6529 and the gradients 6529 logo that are not being placed in the public domain).

Similar concepts exist in some PFP collections and... 
14/ ...and I would like to have this concept in The Memes to allow artists to potentially reuse elements from their work in a card without forcing them to CC0 those elements.

I think CC0 is a valuable tool and concept but I am not a CC0 shamer.

Artists always get to choose. 
15/ Now the astute reader might have noticed that the cards have traits - these are the traits for 6529Seizing.

What do they mean and what do they do?

I have no idea.

Gonna keep putting them out there and see how I feel, but more importantly...

16/ ...as more emerge and get distributed, feel free to use them and build experiments around them yourselves.

NFTs are public readable databases of certain ideas, certain community vibes - we put enough out there and something interesting might emerge. 
17/ Back to the cards - Card #2 is SeizeJPGs by @punk6529

I love this card so much, have been waiting for months to get it out to the world.

18/ Card 3 is UncleSeize also by @6529er.

The original poster is in the public domain and @6529er has adapted it.


19/ So in summary

Cards are CC0, use as you like, spread the good word

Some underlying elements - in this case gradients logo and punk6529 - are not being placed in the public domain

We want to spread our messages far and wide so have fun 
20/ Process items - The mints have been completed and first batch of airdrops should be in your wallets.

Official collection page here: opensea.io/collection/the

This account will send or accept allowlist offers:

Will aim to finish in next few days. 

https://opensea.io/collection/thememes6529

https://opensea.io/thememesdistributor
21/ Artists who want to participate with a card:

Get in touch with @6529er
Match a season 1 theme (or freestyle)
Does not need to include gradient or punk
Card must be CC0 but elements can be reserved
Edition size/price we will figure it out; revenue split 50:50 
21/ WAGMI? GM? Where are the goblins?

There are no goblins around here.

Prices will go up and down and all around but NFTs as a social technology as up only forever.

I may worry but I am an optimist by nature. 
22/ The usual stuff:
a) Buy only if you want and can afford it, for fun.
b) If not, just right click save as the cards for free and do what you like with them
c) I remind you that I have no idea what may happen on these or anything else

Have fun! 

1/ On the Right Way to Worry

Should you spend your whole life stressing out about all the various opportunities and challenges in your life?

Should you retire to your inner Buddha, impervious to the ups and downs of life?

My proposal to you is: Why not both? 
2/ In this tweetstorm, I will propose the Ocean Framework.

Remember, all frameworks are wrong, some are useful.

It is my personal integration of the dominant frameworks of the cultural context of most of my life - upper middle class, male, United States. 
3/ The first framework to integrate, the framework that a lot of you are running, a highly American framework, is something like:

Salvation Through Personal Productivity Systems.

These are catnip to Type A personalities like me. I think I have read them all. 
4/ The original temple for this religion is the airport bookstore and the main congregant is the business traveller

"Super-Orgs (tm). How To Delight Your Customers, Inspire Your Employees, and Hit Your OKRs!"

"WIN! How To Climb The Career Ladder Like Sun Tzu & Attila The Hun" 
5/ But airport bookstores are for boomers.

About a decade ago, a hyper-charged version of this appeared on blogs and LinkedIn.

"The 11 Things Top CEOs Do Before Breakfast"

"Aligned! How Implementing Jira At Home Has Made My Family Ready For Disruptive Innovation" 
6/ Unfortunately, the bar has now gotten higher.

It is no longer sufficient to smite your business enemies through the Power of Better To-Do lists.

You have to also compete on a variety of physical and spiritual dimensions. 
7/ In addition to revenue growth, you have to also deliver:

 low resting heart rate & high heart rate variability
 low inflammation
 ice baths
 saunas
 triathlons
 3 day silent meditations
 elimination of all carbs, meats, seed oils and tomatoes 
8/ The ultimate endpoint of this is in crypto, both the new era BTC maxis and the general sigma grindset.

We must sell our chairs, live on a mattress on the floor and HODL.

This is the truest expression of business success as a religion.

Literal monasticism for Number Go Up. 
9/ So how do I feel about all this? Let me start with the easy stuff.

I am of European heritage so I have some immune system defenses against "we must all be triathletes eating chicken"

Nothing wrong with exercise of course, but we must also eat delicious French cheeses. 
10/ But the other productivity religion items worked on me for a long time.

My "personal" folder on my computer is full of deprecated Excel lists of goals and personal life organizational systems, of perfectly organized days, of nirvana IF I AM JUST MORE ORGANIZED. 
11/ Unfortunately, this dream is oversold in my humble opinion.

I have done conventionally well in life, partially because I do work very hard and I am reasonably well organized.

This systems are, within their limitations, helpful for business success. 
12/ But is nirvana around the corner? No, nirvana is not around the corner.

Business success is much closer to "mo' money, mo' problems" than "nirvana"

I have lots more economic and human resources at my disposal now, but... 
13/ ...along with that comes an endless list of challenges, problems and opportunities.

I wake up every day and feel like one of those advanced radar systems that have to monitor hundreds of friendly and unfriendly planes and missiles across my integrated battlespace 
14/ You see how the war analogy creeped in again?

"10 Things CEOs Can Learn From Integrated Battlefield Management Systems"

is coming to a bookstore near you this Fall. 
15/ A useful analogy is to think of this business productivity / hustle stuff as video game levels.

As soon as you get good enough, organized enough to play a certain level with ease, you are inevitably tempted to go to the next harder level and you are anxious again. 
16/ You might say this is a good thing and I think it probably is.

It is the way society trains us to take on greater responsibilities.

But just know that no personal salvation lies in this direction, no salvation in being a high functioning Level 4.

17/ The other framework that floats around is vaguely of eastern mysticism, of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism.

The "serious" nerd version of this is Siddhartha or the Tao Te Ching.

The retail version is some yoga studio in a strip mall in LA. 
18/ What is the promise here? extremely tl;dr

The day-to-day world and everything you worry about is just a mirage.

Everything will change, suffering comes from fighting this change, ashes to ashes, dust to dust.

When you truly fully accept this, you are at peace 
19/ Like productivity porn is accurate within its context, this is also accurate within its context.

But its context is severe.

Siddhartha fasted in the woods, lived in the world and knocked up a sex worker, and proceeded to take the kid to live on the river and eat bananas. 
20/ I love Siddhartha, was very helpful to me, but I don't see myself retiring to the bank of a river, to meditate on the changing water, to eat bananas for the rest of my life

The Western shortcut version won't get you to salvation either - it is more like going to gym. 
21/ There are of course other frameworks floating out there:

Abrahamic religious ones of various types
European epicurianism (and cynicism)
Huge numbers of non-Western, non Type A frameworks 
22/ To be absolutely clear, I am not trying to exhaustively cover global religion and philosophy in a few tweets.

People spend whole lifetimes on that and don't succeed.

I am taking shortcuts, mangling everything, to make a very specific point about "worrying" 
23/ The business productivity mindset worries a lot.

It does not call it that of course because "How To Worry Your Way To The Top" would not be a very popular airport book.

But it is all worrying, from top to bottom. 
24/ "Is my CRM properly set up to enable a high net promoter score"

"Did I reach out to 20 people on LinkedIn this week?"

"Am I getting my Vitamin D levels up?"

Are all forms of worrying, forms of anxiety dressed up in business and health science language. 
25/ But aren't these good things? Of course they are.

You should get your Vitamin D levels up for many reasons!

You should worry about it if it is too low so you take supplements or go outside or both.

You should worry enough to track it. 
26/ I want to act in the world. I want to do things.

And if I want to do things at any meaningful scale, then yes, I need to wake up and worry about things.

But I am also sure that in the grand cosmic scheme of things that none of the things I worry about matter even 0.001% 
27/ So how to integrate these two thoughts?

Day to day things matter, humans matter, a better society matters, your own health matters, your family matters and also, of course, at cosmic scale, nothing matters whatsoever.

How can you integrate these two thoughts practically? 
28/ The best analogy for me, that I stole, I think, from some Taoist book is to think of yourself as the ocean.

The ocean surface on a day-to-day basis changes a lot.

It might be flat as a pancake, there might be some ripples, there may be waves, there may be a wild storm 
29/ But the ocean is also deep and permament and heavy and at the bottom of the ocean, the waves on the surface don't matter too much.

In fact, the deep ocean may not even know or care about the waves on the surface.

(press 'read more' soon to keep reading) 
30/ So for me all the day-to-day worries, all the business productivity worries, all the opportunities and challenges, are the ocean's surface.

It is OK for there to be waves.

You don't have to fight to keep everything 100% surface calm at all times - it is unnatural IMHO. 
31/ Waves can be scary, but waves can be fun.

You can surf them, you can watch them in awe, on quieter days, you can sit in an inner tube and let them push you around, you can throw rocks at them.

Going to the beach is mostly fun, but [if hurricane] then take measures! 
32/ At the exact same time as you are skipping stones or waterskiing on the surface, be the Big Blue Deep.

Be the vast mass of ocean deep, thousands and tens of thousands of feet deep, for which a 100 foot wave is a trifle, a joke, a nothing, a little shudder. 
33/ The oceans will be here after the storm, and after you and me, and after generations and generations and generations of our civilizations, for billions of years.

They will grind mountains into sand on geological scale.

They will be here for billions of years 
34/ So this is my proposal to you regarding The Right Way To Worry.

Worry on a day-to-day basis, try to be better, try to take positive action in the world.

Be the ocean's surface that is active in the world.

Swim, ski, snorkel, sunbathe on this fun surface 
35/ But also at the same time keep a level for yourself that is untouched by day to day worry.

A level that the surface world can't get to.

A level that knows that your worries are a trifle in the scheme of things.

A level of the ocean deep. 
36/ Frameworks are a tool, not absolute truth.

Their relevance depends on culture, personality and stage in life.

Use it if it is useful to you, ignore it if it is not. 

If you are new around here, our fight is for an open metaverse

1/ On 6529 RAW

tl;dr this is my personal CC0 photography collection.

The 24 hour auction for the genesis piece begins in 21 hours, at 6pm UTC time, 2pm NY time, 11am California time tomorrow, Sunday, June 5th.

raw.6529.io

But a story below if you are interested.

2/ My dad gave me my first camera when I was six years old.

It was a Vivitar, something like this photo I found online.

I remember that back then this was unusual. My friends had toy cameras, mine actually took real pictures.

I started getting hooked.

3/ By the time I was a teenager, I had the legendary AE-1 film camera and was fully hooked.

I was a pretty good age-adjusted photographer.

I had a full ride to university to study photography, but I turned it down, took a very different path in life.

4/ So work (and fun) started absorbing my life after university.

More money, less time; Fancier gear, fewer photographs.

Today this beast of a camera gathers dust on my bookshelf at home and I snap casual pictures with my phone like a civilian.

5/ I always assumed that one day I would make nice prints of my photographs or maybe self-publish a book.

This fall I realized Life is Short and this was not actually going to happen.

One day I would die with 100K photos on my hard drive, mostly unseen. 
6/ So it is time to follow my own advice.

It is time to get the photos off the hard drive where they are waiting for the (theoretical) fancy thing that will never happen and push them into world.

Maybe they will do something, maybe not, but they need to move into the world. 
7/ So what is the plan?

Well all of my absolute favorite photographs are portraits, but they will dox me, so sadly they are out.

Others are near my home and will also dox me so they are out too.

So I have to primarily use "travel" landscapes and cityscapes for 6529 RAW. 
8/ The challenge, of course, with these limitations is to avoid a cliche-fest of postcard photos.

It is not easy.

I have to work in the margins of my collection, see if I can find an angle that is more obscure.

Maybe something you have not seen before. 
9/ Why do (did) I shoot?

For the most banal of reasons - to remember.

I almost called this collection: "Things I've Seen"

Things I have seen and perhaps would like to share with you, if you are interested? 
10/ So why "6529 RAW"

Well, the obvious reason is a silly joke about photography file formats.

But also it is mostly an unprocessed collection.

I know many of these can be improved in post, but I don't really have time, so you will see mostly what I saw. 
11/ The collection will be released using the CCO - Creative Commons 0 1.0 license.

Please feel free to use any photograph from the collection, enjoy and have fun.

CC0 - Creative Commons
No Rights Reserved CC0 enables scientists, educators, artists and other creators and owners of copyright- or database-protected content to waive those interests in their works and thereby place them
https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/
1
2/ Is there a roadmap?  Of course not

Will I be sending you a high quality print by postal mail?

Negative ser. I'm headed to the metaverse, not the print shop.

But everyone is welcome to print their own. 
13/ Now with the serious stuff out of the way, let's have some fun.

As I said, I want to bring you photographs of underrepresented places which is why I am starting the collection with...

ICELAND!

Wait, what seriously?

Yes, seriously. 
14/ I am going to hard mode myself.

I have no delusions whatsoever that I can match the elite mountain-hiking, drone-flying landscape photographers of Iceland.

No chance at all. Zero. They are all much better and more talented than me.

So what is the plan? 
15/ My hard mode plan is - can I start with a handful of photographs in the most over-saturated NFT photography theme that *look different*.

"Iceland, but maybe it is not obvious it is Iceland"

So we will start this journey in Iceland to make a point  
16/ Iceland 1 is the genesis of the collection & my genesis art NFT.

I took this photo when I was in high school, when I was on an overnight layover.

These are some reflections in the harbor in Reykjavik.

Something I saw, I wanted to remember, and maybe share with you.

17/ This photograph was taken with the famous AE-1 on film, possibly Ektar 100, but that is a guess, I don't actually remember.

I got it scanned back in the day with the Kodak PhotoCD system and it is minted exactly as it came back from Kodak back then. 
18/ The contract is a standalone @manifoldxyz contract, the auction for token 1 is running on the Manifold contract, but mostly because @foundation hasn't re-released integration.

Will import it somewhere for better secondary distribution for the collectoooooors. 
19/ The specific contract is here and @6529er made some nice ASCII art for it. 

https://etherscan.io/address/0x07e24ee32163da59297b5341bef8f8a2eead271e#code
20/ Summary:

a) Only buy the token if owning it will mean something to you

b) Everyone else, you can right click save as the art here: 6529.io/wp-content/upl

c) Auction starts tomorrow.

d) Have fun!!!

raw.6529.io

1/ @0xDecaArt wants to expand distribution and raffle off 32 mints of "Right Click Share" to people in the 6529 feed.

Drop your ethereum address or ENS in the thread below and Deca will automatically read it and pick the mintooooors randomly.

The mint is free (plus gas).

2/ I think this is a super cool art experiment with @XCOPYART.

Every year, each pixel holder has to re-attest it, so we will see how long the  holds together and how it starts to fade over time.

This is a loooooong game art experiment which of course appeals to me 
3/ The mint is free of course, but none of this is financial advice obviously regarding if you should buy or sell.

I have no idea, I just think it is fun.

I minted one via the waitlist along with everyone else, I bought one on secondary and I may buy or sell more secondary 
4/ Deadline is 24 hour-ish for this 

1/ On VCs in web3

Why are they here? Why isn't it all decentralized? Why do we see the same names over and over again?

Is this good? Is it bad? Whose fault is it?

Read to find out more - this is actually quite simple. 
2/ This all starts with the SEC and specifically the "Howey Test"

This is a test of if something is a security in the United States, specifically:

An investment of money
In a common enterprise
With the expectation of profit
To be derived from the efforts of others 
3/ So to take a simple example.

You think you can build a great exchange for trading NFTs. You need some money to pay the salary of you and your colleagues, servers, etc.

You pitch this idea to your friends or your twitter feed.

$ for shares or ETH for tokens 
3/ How does this look

Investment of money? Yes
In a common enterprise? Sure is
Expectation of profit? Yup
To be derived from the efforts of others? Yup, in this case the "others" is you and your team 
4/ Congratulations!

You have just sold an unregistered security and violated the law in the United States

So what you can do?

Well the easiest and most practical thing to do is to sell shares to "accredited investors" who are primarily defined in the United States as "rich" 
5/ The United States allows you to sell unregistered securities to accredited investors with, effectively, no restrictions.

So most startups, excited to build their business, not navigate a bunch of regulations from the SEC will go the fast route and go to accredited investors 
6/ Who are typical accredited investors who invest in startups?

 Rich individuals ("angels")
 Rich established families ("family offices")
 Venture capital firms ("VCs")

VCs can typically make larger investments at higher valuations. 
7/ What are your alternatives?

a) self-finance until you have a decentralized product
b) crowdfund (lower) amounts through the crowdfunding regulations
c) file to be a public company

For most cases, all of these are harder for the startup 
8/ What about the rest of the world?

In terms of startup funding for crypto firms, the rest of the world does not matter so much (yet).

The majority of startup funding for crypto comes from the United States for now 
9/ OK, so who are significant funders of crypto startups.

A very much non-exhaustive list off the top of my head:
- a16z
- USV
- Pantera
- DCG
- Paradigm
- Polychain
and a few more 
10/ What is very interesting is that the large majority of silicon valley venture capital firms have not yet gotten comfortable with funding crypto startups.

The number of firms willing and able to write a big check to an early stage crypto startup on a regular basis is <10 
11/ So here is an approximate model of funding for crypto startups.

a) most money is raised in the USA
b) the SEC pushes startups to VC firms
c) Most VCs are clueless about crypto
d) The VCs who are not clueless show up in a lot of deals bc their competitors are out to lunch 
12/ Is this good or bad? It depends on the alternative:

a) SEC being more creative on web3 funding would be BETTER
b) More VC firms investing in crypto startups would be BETTER
c) But everything staying as-is and the VC firms that invest in crypto investing less, would be WORSE 
13/ So, sure Jack Dorsey is right that the same firms appear in a lot of firms' shareholder bases, but I have not seen him propose an actual practical alternative such as:

a) specific changes at the SEC

b) helping getting more money to these startups in other ways 
14/ I think also that people overestimate the level of involvement of VC firms in day-to-day operations of their "portfolio companies"

Each VC typically has a 1% to 10% stake and invests in many startups.

No good VC has time for operational matters within their portfolio 
15/ Now, what should a budding founder do?

a) If they can self-finance, self-finance for as long as possible

b) If their product can get to market without funding, sure, do it

c) But if they need capital to execute their vision, they should go get it and not be ashamed 
16/ Also, and this is more an issue for inexperienced founders than for experienced ones, it is OK to listen to ideas and advice from VCs, but you have to make your own decisions.

The buck stops with the CEO, not shareholders or directors 
17/ The only time I have been irritated with startup founders has been when they have 'hidden' behind their investors.

"Well, my investors told me to do it"
"Yes, but it is YOUR decision and you have to stand behind it" 
18/ There is no pattern matching of a "good CEO" who hides behind their board of directors or shareholders for decisions.

If it is a good decision, you should stand behind it.
If it is a bad decision, you should not.

Anything else is insta-loss-of-respect. 
19/ I note that sometimes, with 2nd tier VCs and inexperienced founders, the investors use the founder's lack of knowledge or insecurity against them.

There it is the VC's fault.

Interestingly, the weaker the VC, the worse the behavior. 
20/ The best VCs in the world are:

a) personally very successful
b) know that power laws rule everything around them (the big wins are what matters).
c) don't sweat the small stuff

You generally do not see them messing around with a company for a small tactical advantage. 
21/ So this is where we are.

It is not perfect, I hope it can improve, but also I don't think it is an impossible barrier to where we need to go.

The impossible barrier will be banning directly or indirectly non-custodial wallets.

All eyes must stay on that prize! 
22/ If this is your first time around here, we are heading for an open metaverse.

it just might save the world in the 2030s.

lots and lots and lots of tweets on this here

1/ Gradients Final Auction is on 

The remaining 24 Gradients are on auction as of now.

One ending in 3 hours, one in 6, then lots tomorrow afternoon/night, a few on Saturday, grand finale, #42 and #69 on Saturday

2/ A reminder on the remaining supply:

a) 11 at 6529 Museum
b) 5 went to our  @6529er @LoneRanger5148 @rayan_oncyber @6529capital
c) 3 I am will be giving away to some collectives in the coming weeks.

And that is it, we are done on primary 
3/ The distribution is close to ideal in terms of what I wanted so far.

The first wallet is the 6529 selling wallet; the second is the 6529 Museum and then after that is is very well distributed, almost all holders of 1.

Hope that holds after today.

4/ Where can you get a good deal?

a) Well congrats to herbst_vault who snagged two at 0.6529 that I forgot to put as an auction and put as a "buy now" by mistake

I salute your keen eye and fast action ser

b) Keep an eye on the non-USA times; they are usually less competitive

5/ What are the gradients?

See below, good luck, have fun today and tomorrow!


6/ If anyone is ambitious enough to make a chart with the closing times of the auctions, it will get a retweet 


1/ After the Thankgiving Gradient auctions, I said we would not auction again until 2022.

Well, that was accurate! It is in fact 2022 - like many other fun things, got left behind in all the OM BUIDLing

So I just sent #83 to a 24 hr auction at 0.6529


2/ What are the Gradients?

Well, for one, they are @6529er's preferred interpretation of his iconic logo.

The logo might appear in other NFTs, but the Gradients are and always will be the "reference" interpretation. 
3/ They are also a vehicle for me to run fun social experiments.

When they first launched, I had no idea what they would do.

Then we tried the Gradient owners curated gallery - each gradient owner can place an NFT of their choice in the gradient gallery.

I enjoyed this. 
4/ Because it was fun, the gallery graduated to @OM100m right next to Sunshine Square.

We sometimes do events in that gallery.

oncyber.io/6529om?coords=


6529 Museum District
The 6529 Museum District is the alpha version of the first district of OM. For more info: 6529.io/om
https://oncyber.io/6529om?coords=91.36x2.80x-55.70x3.52
5/ What is going to come next?

I don't know, but I am 99% sure it will have something to do with @OM100m.

There is so much vast unexplored social coordination space, with NFTs, with OM, in the intersection between those two.

So that is an area I would like to explore. 
6/ Quantitative details:
a) There are 101 Gradients
b) there are about 58ish in the world at large, with good distribution
c) 3 are vaulted in 6529 Museum forever
d) I will probably keep another 7 for a long time
e) that leaves another 30 or so 
7/ Of remaining 30ish, I will get most of them out in the coming days.

After 6 months doing other things, it is time to finish the mint and expand the Gradient family.

I will keep a few for special usages - I have a couple of ideas I am mulling over. 
8/ But 6529, these are pricey, not so "much for the people" (the last one traded at 10ETH).

I know. This is and always will be a small batch, a certain vision.

There are more accessible ones also stuck in the 5 month queue coming soon.

Also, the real free mint is OM itself  
9/ Bonus: Reminder

The "6529 Intern" fair use JPGs are real, I minted them, they have full 6529 provenance.

They are, strictly speaking, my first NFTs minted.

We need to reactivate that community too.

@mintfaced and @DarrenSRS can we track down?

https://opensea.io/collection/6529internjpg
10/ 11 Gradients off to the 6529 Museum. 3, at least, are permanent, the rest will be there for quite some time

11/ Gradient #77 to the legend himself @6529er


12/ #82 to SZN1 Fund and #18 to SZN2 Fund. Won't be seeing these for a while.

Yes, I picked them to add up to 100.


13/ #75 to @LoneRanger5148 whose early and endless support has been crucial to this mission

14/ #24 to @rayan_oncyber, my open metaverse fren!

[I wonder if he will know how to place an NFT in the gallery? ]

1/ While I would be happy to be proven wrong, I don't think undercollateralized algostables can work

I have been thinking about this for almost a decade and have not come up with a plausible solution that I believe in - otherwise 6529USD would be a thing  
2/ Making your token = 1 dollar is a subset of a broader question of 'pegging your currency to another currency"

In freely convertible currencies, even major nation-states fail at this regularly.

(you can do it if your currency is not freely convertible but defeats the purpose) 
3/ As far as I can tell, the viable design space is:

a) Centralized collateral like USDC. This can work, will be regulated, has 'nation state risk'

b) Decentralized overcollateralized like +/- Dai 
4/ Anything other than 3a) and 3b), seems like perpetual motion machine type thinking.

If you find this confusing, imagine it without any "blockchain" involved.

Imagine I, 6529, handed you pieces of paper and said "these are always worth $1 and I've issued $10B of them" 
5/ In case like that, what would you need to believe that I could always redeem them for $1?

a) that I had $10B cash
b) that I had $11B of something like cash
c) that I had, I dunno, $15B of large cap stocks
d) that I had $20B+ of volatile instruments

+/- something like that 
6/ If I started some mumbo jumbo about "yields" and "shares in 6529 Inc", well then you should be very very cautious.

The intermediate instrument that is not $1 is usually something to hide the fact that you don't actually have $1 (either from yourself or from others) 
7/ "But what if it was backed by other big parties that could step in?"

Well, that is a form of overcollaterization, just opaque and improperly disclosed.

Those parties don't have an actual obligation to step in typically so it won't matter in the case that it needs to matter 
8/ I never say "never", because new things are invented by humans that did not exist before and happy to have my mind changed.

Until proven though, for me, all undercollateralized algostables are probably perpetual motion machines & either promotor or users have done math wrong. 
9/ Also, obviously, this is not a detailed analysis of USDC or Dai.

I have not looked at the specifics in detail, but they are solutions of type that there is no conceptual barrier to them working. 
10/ Finally a good exercise in thinking about protocols and their tokeneconomics is to think about them using 'pieces of paper' instead of 'tokens'

Most people will do better fundamental analysis this way because tokens razzle dazzle in a way that 'pieces of paper' do not 

1/ On Bear Markets

You are down bad? Working at McDonald's? Your ATH net worth is only visible with a telescope? Your gf is wondering where all the money went?

Now what?

2/ First, some a couple of background threads that I may reference.

What this all means is different based on what "level" you are at in life and what type of game you are playing.

Levels 1 to Levels 5 described below

3/ Also, because I do not want to rewrite my thread from January 1 on "how to make it in crypto?," I am also posting it here.

The title is: "There is one rule only: SURVIVE!" and this still holds. We are going to talk about this today.

4/ The thread is long but this is the conclusion tweet for general crypto investing


5/ And for investing in NFTs

6/ "OK great 6529, but obviously this is not what [many of us] did and now we are down bad. This sucks, I should have sold the top, I should have invested less, etc, etc, etc"

Yes, yes, yes, of course, I know this. 
7/ Before I get into details, if you are, in any way feeling suicidal, then you should reach out to friends, family or the national suicide hotline in your country.

Please get off cryptotwitter and get professional assistance asap  
8/ Now some of you are just regular sad because a week, a month, a year ago, you looked at your crypto balance and saw a very big number and today it is a much smaller number.

So this sucks but also it is normal and 100% of us crypto veterans have lived this MULTIPLE TIMES 
9/ Some personal stories. My family & I have fumbled millions/tens of millions of dollars many times in crypto.

I bought my first BTC at $100 in summer 2013. I got my parents in at an average cost basis of $300. We watched it go over $1,000

WE ARE INVESTING GENIUSES 
10/ Then started the long grind down - Mt Gox and then grind, grind, grind, grind down.

My parents capitulated at the absolute bottom in 2015, sold at $250.

Their stake, if they had kept it, would have been 8 figures now. 
11/ So to recap: my parents bought hundreds of BTC at a cost basis of $300 and somehow managed to lose money.

This is the normal case.

I can count on one hand the number of people from 2013 in my circle (out of hundreds) who managed to: a) buy BTC
and
b) keep it 
12/ I spoke to my dad about this last year at BTC $69K

He shrugged it off, laughed: "It is fine, we were stressing too much about it"

My dad has been Level 5 (playing for intrinsic goods, not money) his whole life, well before he had money

He has been an inspiration to watch 
13/ Let's go to personal fumbles.

I met Vitalik before the pre-sale, heard the Ethereum story for a couple of hours.

But I had had an old school BTC maxi mansplain to me that Vitalik was bright, but did not finish his university coursework; that Ethereum had fatal flaws. 
14/ So I don't buy the presale and then, in full cope mode, doubled down and refused to buy ETH for quite some time.

To recap:
Owned plenty of BTC
Heard the ETH pitch directly from Vitalik
Did not buy ETH pre-sale

Easy 8 figure fumble (maybe 9 figures) 
15/ December 2017, Lower East Side, martinis at Beauty and Essex, BTC is now $20K.

All my normal tradfi friends:
"WTF dude, sell!"
"I mean, come on, sell half at least!"
"Don't be an idiot, sell some" 
16/ I, of course, tell my buddies "don't worry" and I don't sell any BTC.

About 1 year later, in January 2019, BTC was $3,400, down 83%

And a year after that, BTC was again down to $4K before @cobie (and the Fed) saved the day.

Years of "down bad" after years of "down bad" 
17/ And many more, even recently (Avax pre-sale, looking at you).

Everyone who has been in crypto long enough has experiences like this.

You are not alone. We have all lived this before. It is the normal and expected part of investing in crypto. 
18/ So, what do you do now?

You must survive.

You have to organize your life in crypto and outside of crypto so you can survive the 2020s.

If you survive, you will do OK. 
19/ The first thing to do is to look into your emotions, look into how you are taking the drop.

It will teach you about your psychology and how much risk you can tolerate.

Everyone is "John Rambo" when prices are going up.

The down cycle is more instructive though. 
20/ The second is to completely and utterly ignore your "All Time High Net Worth Number"

This number is bullshit, it is not a real thing and it is completely unhelpful to making good decisions.

Your only job is to look at what your situation is today and make good decisions 
21/ The third thing is to accept that you have no idea which way markets are going to move tomorrow, in a month, in a year and in a decade.

This is true for me, it is true for you, it is true for 99.99999% of people.

You have to think about scenarios, not price directions. 
22/ Here are 4 scenarios for example:
a) Prices range here for years
b) Prices swing to normal cycle lows of 85% down (BTC $10,000 and ETH $720), range for years, cycle back up
c) post Russian Central Bank sanctions, Central Banks pour into BTC (up only)
d) crypto actually dies 
23/ The four scenarios above are just an example but you should use a wide range of scenarios.

I don't spend any time worrying about the probability of each scenario.

I make sure I have a reasonable life path for each scenario, even if I am weighted pro-crypto. 
24/ A complete set of life decisions that give you OK outcomes in each of those scenarios is a very good life plan.

Not each outcome might be equally "good", just make sure you can survive each outcome.

If so, you can sleep at night, not make panic moves 
25/ You need to think about your non-crypto life, your job if you have one, your fiat cash flows.

For 99.999% of you, you should keep fiat cash flows going as long as possible.

It gives you cash to invest in crypto and it keeps you more balanced during market swings. 
26/ You need to think how you can be value-added in the space.

The crypto space is short of people - developers of course, but all types of other people - marketers, technical writers, accountants, lawyers.

Any skill + [crypto knowlege] = 25% to 100% more valuable 
27/ Having relevant skills is a great way to continue to learn more about crypto, potentially earn money and, maybe, even in time be a new career path.

You don't need to leave your job asap. You can work part-time, you can orient your existing job this way. 
28/ You should segregate your personal life from your crypto emotions.

During the last 9 years when my crypto exposure swung from immaterial to massive and back again (multiple times), I've been the same person to my friends and family

No lambos on upside, no moping on downside 
29/ Life is short and then you die and all this will be forgotten

Money, while important at Level 1 and Level 2, starts to have very little correlation with happiness in Level 3, Level 4 and Level 5.

[press 'read more' in a tweet or 2 to continue] 
30/ So it is absolutely fine to strive for money (that is how our economic system is organized), but keep a part of your brain, a part of your heart permanently separate from money

A cup of coffee with a friend is the same experience regardless of the price of ETH. 
31/ Also, side note, but relevant under the circumstances.

High yield tokens are always a bit fishy.

If you can't figure out where the "free money"* is coming from, you are probably not competent to put any real money in that token.

* There is no free money ever 
32/ ZOOM OUT. Look to 2030. Look to a world of 100% certain increased digitization.

If you are here in NFT twitter in 2022, you are, in fact early to the cutting edge of digitization.

Don't walk out and go home.

Even if you are broke, stay engaged, learn, work. 
33/ If you stay at it for a decade, in crypto, in NFTs, in "metaverse", in our increasingly digital society, your odds of finding something interesting and economically productive are very decent.

The price of tokens will go up and down.

But digitization is up only 
34/ So let's wrap it up - the goal is TO SURVIVE.
a) Review your emotions
b) Forget your ATH
c) Don't try to predict markets
d) Plan for various scenarios including "down a lot from here"
e) Keep fiat cash flows
f) Build skills, contribute
g) Be normal, enjoy your life
h) 2030 
35/ If this your first time here, we are on a mission to build an open metaverse



1/ On the Otherside licenses (there are 2)

Because 6529 reads licenses, the tl;dr

- much worse licenses than prior Yuga licenses
- no rights in Otherdeeds
- restricted rights in Kodas, 100% revocable
- if punks license ends up looking like this 

Enter the Otherside
Otherside is a gamified, interoperable metaverse currently under development that blends MMORPG mechanics with web3-enabled virtual worlds.
https://otherside.xyz/license
2/ Otherdeeds are the first object in the Yuga universe with no commercial rights.

They are non-commercial rights only, with Animoca as your counterparty.

Also, LOL to physically printing out your Otherdeed

3/ Kodas have commercial rights, but the agreement is much stricter and more limited than prior Yuga language.

This is the key part, making it explicit that the rights are only available as part of a license and subject to the agreement.

4/ The equivalent language in the BAYC license is very simple.

It is this: "you own the underlying Bored Ape, the Art, completely."

5/ The equivalent language in the MAYC agreement is this.

Same language on owning the art completely, but with a reasonable clarification that you don't own the general logos or trademarks.


6/ With the new setup of "you don't own the IP, you have a license to the IP" in Kodas, there is for the first time explicit license termination language.

e.g. don't pay the royalty on the sale of a Koda, Yuga will nuke your Koda.

7/ There is another two new restrictions on Kodas that don't exist for BAYC and MAYC

a) you can't create NFTs using your Koda. This is a big change and comes from a gaming, not art, orientation, I assume.

b) some CYA language on not fractionalizing - hi @Vince_Van_Dough

8/ The modification language has gotten much worse in this license vs the BAYC and MAYC license.

The BAYC license has no modification language
The MAYC license has modification language but limits "use of the site" if you don't accept, so who cares really.

9/ The modification language for Kodas is unlimited in nature and slipped into the General Terms (thanks lawyers!)

So, literally with a tweet, Yuga can take away or restrict the (more limited) commercial rights for Kodas at their sole discretion.

10/ Back to the Otherdeeds, that are covered by 'NFT Purchase Agreement' with Animoca.

Otherdeeds don't come with any physical objects (fine) and with no access or gaming rights.

11/ To the degree that your Otherdeed gives you rights, it is Animoca who is the decidoor since you have contracted with them.

12/ As noted in the Yuga license agreement, the Animoca NFT Purchase Agreement emphasizes that Otherdeeds come with only with non-commercial rights.

13/ The agreement asks you to represent something that is almost certainly a lie, namely that you bought the Otherdeeds for "artistic purposes only".

I mean, come on, nobody had seen the Otherdeeds at mint.

14/To this point, I'll guess that Animoca signed off on this marketing email hours before mint.

I read it three times looking for the "artistic purposes" that mintooors were supposedly signing up for, but all I see is "utility"

15/ Next point.

If you have sold an Otherdeed on Opensea, congratulations, you have already violated the NFT Purchase Agreement 

When you sell an Otherdeed on OpenSea, there is no mechanism for you, the Seller, to cause the Purchaser to agree to the Animoca agreement.

16/ This is sloppy drafting.

It is not that Animoca doesn't want a secondary market in Otherdeeds.

Yet, by the actual language of the actual contract that Animoca actually wrote, any NFT holder who sells on OpenSea is breaching it. 
17/ Also, the Animoca contract binds you to Hong Kong choice of law and Hong Kong arbitration

There are many obvious & non-obvious reasons that Hong Kong is not the correct jurisdiction for a crypto-based metaverse product.

18/ There is also a bunch of other legalese in the agreement, but the important / substantive items are above.

Basically, Otherside is a web 2.5 gaming product, but sortof presenting itself as a web 3 metaverse. 
19/ There is another nuance to be aware of:

- Otherdeeds are sold by Animoca and you have agreed to Animoca terms (no commercial rights, HK jurisdiction)

- Kodas are sold by Yuga and you have agreed to Yuga terms (revocable commercial rights ex-NFTs, USA jurisdiction) 
20/ Now, as always, there is never financial advice on this account.

Gaming is a gigantic and very valuable category, Yuga has created lots of value for its stakeholders so far, and Otherdeeds and Kodas may go up in value. 
21/ This is also not legal advice.

I am not a lawyer and I am certainly not your lawyer.

This is a layperson's read of the agreements. It is likely that I have gotten something wrong

If you do something that requires actual legal advice, you should hire a Real Lawyer (tm) 
22/ Also, the museum owns BAYC/MAYC, the fund owns BAYC/MAYC, both will definitely claim their Otherdeeds.

And I certainly hope they go up in value.

There are many things that are economically valuable that are not decentralized (see: every company on the stock exchange). 
23/ I do think from a decentralization perspective, this is the most centralized product Yuga has launched, by a wide margin.

Maybe that is needed to do the gaming things they have planned.

Maybe not.

It is too soon to tell. 
24/ Personally, I do not have any strong views about what the license terms should be for Kodas, within the context of Otherside.

There may be reasons for the terms being as they are

I do have views on what they should be for punks. 
25/ I am strongly on record that BAYC-like terms for punks are better than Larva Lab-type terms.

But Koda-like terms are not better than LL-type terms.

"No NFTs" and "revocable at will" is not sufficient to trigger "the owners will build on this" effects 
26/ So I hope the Koda terms are that way because of reasons related to their utility in Otherside.

The punks should be set free, more generally, with normal commercial rights.

Here is hoping that Yuga will do so.

It is in their long-term best interests IMHO 

Genesis Museum Video Challenge vote.

The team has narrowed down the entries to 4 finalists (video links below)

Vote here over 24 hours.

1st place 0.69ETH, 2nd place 0.2ETH, 3rd place 0.1ETH 
1/ @solidadeva


2/ Ank


3/ @yakobelmoussa


4/ @luboweb3



1/ On The 6529 COF (Cultural Object Framework)

So I have a framework on how I think about cultural objects.

I will share it. It is neither right nor wrong, like all frameworks it is just a tool. 
2/ Let's start with Dunbar's Number which is the concept that we can only have about 150 stable social relationships.


Dunbar's number - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar%27s_number#cite_note-32
3/ Researchers argue about whether the number or the mechanism is right, but I think none of that matters.

I think it is pretty clear that you can't have 4,945 stable relationships.

The number for most people is a 3 digit number, probably a lower 3 digit number 
4/ Even if it is not a brain processing limit, it is for sure a physical limit of a different type:

Time

There is never ever ever enough time. Nobody has enough time to spend quality time with thousands of people. 
5/ With a very optimistic view that you have 12 hrs/ day that you can dedicate to relationships of all types, that means 360 hours a month.

At a couple of hours per month and perfect utilization of all your time on socialization, that is 180 stable relationships. 
6/ There are variations of this idea: that you can have up to 1,500 loose acquaintances, that you can have 10-15 really close relationships that account for most of your time, and so on.

The details don't matter so much. The key is we have cognitive or time based constraints. 
7/ My proposed COF is that something similar exists for cultural objects:

We have a limit on how many cultural objects we can remember
We remember global, national, community, vocational objects

The result of this is fractal power laws for cultural object success 
8/ There are global cultural objects that most people on earth know:

Coca-Cola, United States of America, Mona Lisa, Donald Trump and other similar cultural objects (brands, ideas, myths, memes) 
9/ There are national cultural objects. In the United States, they may include:

The Super Bowl, the Star Spangled Banner, Taco Bell, keg stands, the American Dream, Paul Revere, "I have a dream" 
10/ There are local cultural objects.

In downtown Manhattan, they may include:

"South of Houston" (SoHo), steak frites at Raoul's, the Halloween Parade, Keith Haring, the SoHo loft, soup dumplings, a schmear of cream cheese. 
11/ There are work (or hobby) related cultural objects.

An investment banker might know "Liar's Poker"
An photographer might know Ansel Adams and the "the rule of thirds"

But a typical banker would not know "the rule of thirds", nor a typical photographer "Liar's Poker" 
12/ Wait, an objection, these are just "things"

Sure, they may also be physical things, but a steak frites late night at Raoul's in SoHo is as much a vibe as it is meat & potatoes.

A schmear of cream cheese is an idea about NYC that is different than 87 grams of cream cheese 
13/ I believe everyone's brain, at any point in time, is full of cultural objects.

But they are not unlimited.

I think it is a few thousand, maximum low tens of thousands of cultural objects for most people. 
14/ I think most people if they started writing down, unaided, all their cultural objects they can remember will not get to hundreds of thousands.

In any case, it is certainly not unlimited. 
15/ I would love to know the cultural objects of Akureyri and Xi'an and Gitega.

I would love to know the cultural objects of lobster fishermen in Alaska and pottery makers in Morocco and farmers in Sri Lanka.

But life is short, we are bound by physics, I will never know them. 
16/ So to recap, I believe:

a) Everyone knows a few thousand, max low tens of thousands of cultural objects (memes)

b) Everyone's cultural objects (memes) are split among global, national, local and work/hobby cultural objects 
17/ True global cultural objects (memes) are the "power law" winners, there are very few of them, maybe a few dozen or low hundreds is my guess.

If a meme has made it to 25%, 30%, 50% of the world population's minds, it is immensely powerful and valuable. 
18/ National cultural objects in any decent sized country are also quite important, quite powerful.

There also follow a power law distribution at the national level.

The same applies on a smaller scale for local / job / hobby cultural objects 
19/ You can summarize this as:

cultural objects (memes) follow fractal power laws

power laws = winners take most
fractal = the same pattern repeats at different scales 
20/ Now we know what we are playing for.

21/ New mediums, new distribution channels open up a portal for new cultural objects (memes) to gain traction.

Today, NFT land is fighting over the global power law meme winners.

Which collections, artists, memes may make it into the global pantheon of cultural objects 
22/ It is why the battle for social construction is brutal and has just gotten started.

My guess is 5 to 50 NFT based memes ever make it into the global pantheon of cultural objects.

Those that do will be immensely powerful, but competition will be utterly unrelenting 
23/ We know we are still playing in the 'global space' by the absence of serious national competitors.

France has 67 million people, is proud of its language and I can't think of a single big PFP collection in French.

Some day there will be dozens of big French PFP collections 
24/ With this in mind, if you are an artist, you are a creator, what should you do?

Go big or go focused.

Nothing else is going to work and, in particular, any half-assed effort for "global" is dead on arrival. 
25/ "Go big" means you want to be Coca-Cola, you want to be Nike, you want to be the Mona Lisa, you want to be Andy Warhol, you want to be the Queen of England.

I wish you luck, it is a bold mission, and 99.999% of collections/artists are NGMI at this mission. 
26/ "Go big" needs a lot of things to go right

In tune with the current vibe
Resources
Execution
Some idea on how you will leverage the network effects of the internet 
27/ You can see how different collections are trying to play this.

"Commercial rights"
"CC0"
"Utility"
"Great art"
"Team"
"DAOs"
"Metaverse"

etc

Nobody has figured it out yet, but the rate of evolution is very very fast 
28/ "6529, I am just an artist, I just drop art, I don't do any of this"

OK, maybe, but every artist who inspired you, themselves won a global power law outcome.

The artists in the art history books memetically, one way or another, "defeated" 99.99999% of all art ever made. 
29/ The alternative is to focus where vast opportunities exist, still completely untouched.

You don't have to make a global brand to be super life successful, both in impact and in economics.

And so far, that territory is unexplored in NFTs 
30/ The key here is that being successful at the national, local, community, industry, hobby level is NOT the 2nd prize for failing at the global level.

It is a different thing altogether. It requires focusing each part of your efforts on a more specific, narrower target 
31/ To take a silly example.

If you want to be the leading French language PFP collection, you make your collection in French, you get French influencers on-board, you outreach to the French community and you probably should be French to hit the vibe right 
32/ My advice in this thread is mostly this - for 99% of artists and creators, it is better to focus to win a niche than to do the 489th best effort to go global.

the 489th best global project is NGMI

But hundreds of thousands of projects will make in aggregate 
33/ And the trick to winning a niche is making something perfect for that niche, even if everyone else hates it.

Of course, you have to pick a good niche, you need to understand that niche, you need to speak to it.

Still hard, but more doable for most than "global" 
34/ For professional collectors*, well the theory is easy, the execution is hard.

With a global/national/local/industry lens, who makes it in 2025, in 2030?

It is a feel mostly, but...

* Amateurs should just buy what they like for fun 
35/ ...the battles are just beginning.

All the simple rules are going to fail. It is going to be harder and it will take some luck to be honest.

The collections that make it will be unimaginably valuable and powerful. But most are NGMI at all 
36/ So that is it, this is how I see it, it is the most exciting thing in the world right now, the battle for the cultural objects, myths and memes that run our societies.

And a chance to see if we can architect them to better outcomes 
37/ As always

SEIZE THE MEMES OF PRODUCTION! 
38/ If you are coming here for the first time, there are a lot of tweets about why an open metaverse is important here



1/4 I used to think USA/EU -- with 12 years now to think -- would be capable of producing a sensible approach to crypto/web 3 that allows society to gain the benefits of innovation and broad participation in business building.

I'm still trying, but I'm increasingly worried... 
2/4 ...that we either end up with a full misguided state assault, "War on Drugs" style that kicks innovation back for years and decades.

Or we end up with a @balajis-style disorderly transition with some light forms of state collapse.

Or both: the former, then the latter 
3/4 We should do everything possible to avoid these two scenarios.

They are bad for society, they are bad for people, they are fever-dreams of both sides ("I will regulate away math") and ("I will live in my Citadel alone while the poors suffer outside"). 
4/4 We need to keep trying, keep trying to reach out and explain the benefits.

And the USA/EU, honestly, needs to try a little harder, use some imagination.

Crypto/web 3 is not just some silly little thing to be brought into the fold. It is internet-scale innovation. 


Missing some Tweet in this thread? You can try to force a refresh

1/ On The Consumerization of Crypto

What do you see when you see this?

Would would a person with no crypto background see?

2/ What you may see is: "oh, cool, a bunch of mfers on top of the Tulip, in OM"

It is what I see in any case.

This is obvious, it is background knowledge for us, it is trivial. 
3/ But that simple sentence contains multitudes

a) BTC & how it works
b) Ethereum & how it works
c) ERC-721 & how it works
d) what a PFP is
e) what CC0 means
f) what generative art is
g) what Fidenza #313 is
h) what OM is

If you were explaining this from scratch, good luck... 
4/ And this has been my life experience so far with crypto.

Explaining BTC, explaining ETH, explaining SOL, explaining Uniswap.

Hard to use any of these and not understand the theory of what is going on because the product of BTC is BTC. 
5/ And when I look at the list above and think "wait, I need to explain to my non-crypto frens about ERC-721 and mfers", well I feel tired already.

But...
But....
But.....
But...... 
6/ What if that does not matter?

Instagram is a popular mobile photosharing application, as you may know.

Instagram uses python and nginx and PostgreSQL and cloud computing and content delivery networks and even trusty old TCP/IP 
7/ But nobody has ever said:

"You should download Instagram. It is this really cool app, it uses python! Also, nginx! So awesome, I have been waiting all my life for a photosharing app that uses python" 
8/ People download Instagram to FOMO their friends about their beach vacation and the deluxe Peruvian sashimi platter they just ordered

They don't know what the Instagram tech stack is, they don't care what the Instagram tech stack is, and THIS IS CORRECT 
9/ One reason we have advanced societies is specialization and division of labor.

You, anon, know how to configure nginx
You, other anon, know how to make great sashimi
You, other anon, know how to market luxury homes on IG 
10/ There is no reason for all of us to know all these things.

Society would grind to a halt if you had to know how to manufacture a pair of sneakers, fly a plane, assemble an LCD panel, play the violin and install undersea cables. 
11/ One of my big "wow" moments about NFTs was that:

"NFTs are crypto's consumer moment"

Technology becomes consumerized when it is no longer about the technology, but about something else the technology enables. 
12/ This is a general technology rule and I have been waiting for it for nearly a decade in crypto.

It is now here.

BTC's product is BTC
ERC-721's product is mfers, Fidenzas and OM. 
13/ So we can now scale without having to have a 2 hour lecture, starting with Nakamoto consensus, as the sales pitch.

The starting point now can be "go to this URL to party at the rooftop bar in OM with a bunch of mfers"

This is more accessible, more fun, more scalable. 
14/ After partying with the mfers, then maybe you need an NFT of your own.

OK, time for a wallet. This needs a lot of work on UX by the wallet teams, but they CAN get better.

They MUST get better and I think they will. 
15/ People are going to do what is fun and easy because people have busy lives and too many things to think about already.

People in SoHo want a gelato and a new pair of jeans, not a lecture in computer science.

People don't change when they go online

16/ So now we have the opportunity to make broadly appealing applications built on decentralized systems that are healthier for society.

What is now left is the execution.

We have to be at least as good in UX as centralized systems, maybe better. 
17/ But what about BTC, ETH, Uniswap?

Yes, they remain hugely important.

But they are important in the way that roads and Linux and Fedwire are.

They are infrastructure, they must be protected, but they are mostly building blocks for other experiences. 
18/ So this is it team. This is our shot.

This is our chance to make a run for a better society, with JPGs as our rocket and crypto as our fuel

If we do it right, this time, we've got them.

 
19/ Let's put you in the thread ser, for the historical record




Missing some Tweet in this thread? You can try to force a refresh

1/ OM Generation 1 is the alpha version of OM (Gen 0 was the pre-alpha).

You can join by filling out this form.

It is a free mint, done manually.


JOIN OM GENERATION 1
OM is currently in alpha and we want to grow with all types of usage cases before beta. We are calling this Generation 1. It is free to join. We will try to add as many folks as possible, but we ca
https://6529.io/om/join-om/
2/ Why is it manual?

To first see where people want to walk, and then build the pathways.

To first see what people want to do in a metaverse and THEN put it on an immutable blockchain

3/ What can you ask for in Generation 1?

#1 - A space (this is an individual space, placed somewhere in the world)

This is the right answer for most people.

It can be a gallery, an office, an outreach center, a place to send a special message, to hold events. 
4/ #2 - A building that can hold 5, 10, 100 spaces.

You have to be a pretty large organization to need this.

A collective of photographers for example might productively use a building, each photographer with their own space. 
5/ #3 - A small district, with room for multiple buildings.

This is the appropriate size for a PFP project.

Projects have, say, 4,000 holders, maybe 25% of them will be active, so you have room for 1,000 spaces. 
6/ #4 - A big district, something the size of the 6529 Museum District.

This is only for the largest organizations. There are 2,200 buildings in the museum district.

It is a huge effort to build out something like this.

You know if you need something this big. 
7/ #5 - An experimental district - you are an artist, you have a creative idea, you are a collective of sculptors, you want to make a sculpture park, that type of thing.

This might not have any spaces at all in it, it is just an experiment. 
8/ Will you automatically get what you ask for in that form?

LOL - no. Some people are asking for unreasonable things.

Will you get something? Probably, yes, almost any reasonable request will get something. 
9/ Will the alpha period be open forever?

No.

One day I will look at the to-do list and say "got, we have enough to do in alpha" and I will close the form. 
10/ Should you do it? Well, it is free. What do you have to lose?

Will the spaces go on-chain?

Yes, of course.

At which point, you will have done a free mint. 
11/ Can you bring an existing oncyber space (gallery) to OM? yes

Will OM provide some new space types? yes

If you have technical expertise (or experts), can you bring your own building to OM? yes 
12/ Should you join the discord and contribute ideas?

Sure, if you like

discord.gg/KAYFAXhW

See you in OM 

1/ Introducing OM

Buckle up, this is going to be long, but fun.

If you are new to long tweetstorms, you have to click show replies every 30th tweet to see the rest

2/ Gonna give the teaser in a second, but before you get the links, we will cover the following:
- OM is in alpha stage
- The theory
- The approach
- The plan

(I mean, what else did you expect?) 
3/ So, the last 8 months (and I suspect quite a few more to come), this is what I have been working on. 
4/ What is this?

This is the alpha version of the first district (the 6529 Museum District) of the first city (Genesis City) of OM*

* What is OM? (wait a couple of tweets) 
5/ What is in here?

- The 6529 Museum of Art
- The museums of 6529 team members

It is my favorite visualization of NFT art to-date.

I also think it may be the most high end art NFTs ever displayed in one place.

The tour is later in the thread 
6/ What is goal of OM?

The goal is a decentralized open metaverse that can scale to 100,000,000 people.

10 cities of 10M each, each with hundreds of districts, with towns, villages and nature in between. 
7/ Is OM 6529's branded metaverse?

No, I have been incubating OM but the goal is a horizontal, brand-neutral metaverse where anyone can build.

My dream world is 5,000 self-governing districts in 10 self-governing cities in one self-governing world. 
8/ In that world, I would love to, with frens, collaborate on a couple of districts focused on art and education because those are things I like and am good at.

But I do not want to be the mayor of 5,000 districts, thank you very much. 
9/ What does "alpha" mean in OM? It means it is not ready to get locked in with on-chain economics.

a) It is partially but not sufficiently decentralized
b) Various tech things will break
c) Even the 1st district is not complete (just the central square) 
10/ OK, fine where do I buy land today?

Nowhere.

I do not want your ETH, I want your input on how to design OM.

I collect in public, I invest in public and we are going to build OM in public together. 
11/ OM is an experiment, specifically an experiment on if we can build an open metaverse that is:

a) engaging
b) inclusive to all
c) Integrated with physical world 
12/ The current plan is 3-4 months in alpha and 3-4 months in beta

In the alpha phase, we will build out the existing district and some neighboring districts

In the beta phase, we will start figuring out governance and bridges to the real world 
13/ A quick definition.

The fundamental governance model of OM is at the district level:

Districts can either be "developed" or "open"

6529 is going to develop the 6529 Museum District for example. Others can develop others. Others can be a free-for-all experimental spaces. 
14/ Alpha phase: Museum district

If you want to join the Museum District and have an interesting idea, get in touch (details below).

The price to join the alpha, if the idea matches the district vision is: free 
15/ Artist, collector, community frens, please consider you have an open invitation to the district.

I think it is going to make sense to hang out in these types of spaces too, but I am not sure.

It is an experiment and we will find out by summer how it works. 
16/ Alpha phase: New Districts

If you are a very large organization or community, who thinks you can build or co-build a district of your own, also get in touch.

Taking on a district is a big project. Makes sense if you have a 10K+ or more engaged community I think. 
17/ A sense of scale  the 6529 Museum District has ~25 active museum buildings in the center square, but another 2,000+ buildings that have not been switched on.

Each building can host between 1 to 100 spaces, so this district type can easily host 100,000 citizens. 
18/ What is the goal of the alpha phase?

See if this is fun and interesting to use. See if we go back daily. I have tried many other metaverses and mostly I dont go back regularly.

Metaverses without constant activity are going to fade away even with high valuations now. 
19/ The goal of the alpha is to figure out together, what we want to do together, online.

This is the hard part.

Decentralizing the governance and economics is easier by contrast. 
20/ So wen beta from alpha?

wen:
a) Museum district has more citizens and they spend time there
b) We try / test some new districts
c) Tech can support larger spaces
d) We check performance and UX across a lot of users

I think June or July if all goes well. 
21/ OK, so what do we do in beta?

a) Governance and economics go on-chain
b) Programming interface to people can code to the world
c) A Bridge to the physical world (I have a plan here too, but in R&D mode right now)

I figure by Fall we are ready. 
22/ I think this is the right way to do it.

a) We experiment to find the right model

b) But 6529 pays for the experimentation until we are further along 
23/ Why? It would be soooooo easy for me to crowd-fund the alpha.

I think that would be a mistake. It would lock in expectations too early.

We need freedom to make mistakes (and fix them) without impacting peoples economic interests. 
24/ [A brief commercial interruption]

For goodness sake, stop giving your ETH to vaporware metaverse projects.

"Force" the teams to launch something so you can see what it is, then buy in because you like it.

Or come build together with us. 
25/ You have made it through the first section, you get something, the Discord link

The Discord is there for the normal reason (to make unreasonable demands of the devs obvs) but also to to make OM Groups on key topics, to figure things out together.


26/ The Discord is to help build an open metaverse, both in whatever specific implementation OM does, but also more generally.

For example, I would love to see in a few weeks that we have a few groups working on public policy recommendations in different countries. 
27/ So many of you over the last few months have asked "how can I help?" and I mostly have politely said "I will get back to you" because I don't have the bandwidth to productively work with hundreds of people.

This is now the way you can help 
28/ I know this is going to sound totally abstract at this phase, but I view OM as bridging the virtual and the physical world because that is how life is.

So we are going to do things online and do things offline because that is where the world is 
29/ So to be specific, if you want to work on public policy for, I dunno, the Egyptian blockchain law and never load an NFT into a gallery and want to be a part of OM:

a) that is great
b) you will be able to do so
c) it will not cost anything 
30/ Now, let's go back to theory. What does an Open Metaverse mean to me?

It means a metaverse with no one party in charge. A metaverse where you dont have to worry who is the shareholder and do you agree with them? 
31/ This is not so shocking, humans have accomplished this before.

There is not one human being in charge of: email, or HTML or TCP/IP or Bitcoin or ERC-721.

The strange thing, the part that is unusual is that some protocols have been trapped into Web 2 companies. 
32/ At some level the internet itself will become the metaverse in time.

But also there will be several large metaverses, that will be closed (e.g. Meta by Facebook).

So I would like to see what I can to ensure there is at least some (more) decentralized metaverses 
33/ Why is this important?

Well, I have written about a zillion tweets on this topic.

Most of you know them, but if you are new here, you can find them all here


34/ Short answer is that a closed metaverse has three problems.

a) 1st, the owner can be unreasonable - Facebook wants to take 47.5% of the revenue (not profit!) of artists and creators in its metaverse.

More than any hyper-socialist government!!! 
35/ 2nd, the owner can prevent applications that compete with the owner (happens all the time)

3rd, the owner may lose control of the metaverse to a future dictator because the state can easily take over centralized tech companies. 
36/ So what does a successful open metaverse mean to me?

There are technical aspects and there are social aspects.

So far we have been doing a bit better at the technical aspects than working out the social aspects 
37/ The technical aspects are clear

- on chain
- client-side
- decentralized or federated services

There are several metaverses like this, many with years of work in them & I fully support their experiments!

The more experiments, the better chance someone gets it right 
38/ But my concern is that most metaverses are not socially organized to scale up sufficiently.

If we dont have a model that can plausibly get to 10s then 100s of millions of people, it will not be competitive with the Web 2 metaverses 
39/ Scaling beyond ETH/crypto degens, means a few things:

a) It has to be easy to use
b) It cant cost a ton of money to join (globally affordable)
c) It has to Bridge to the physical world 
40/ A few high concept ideas:

Memes > land

Art

Portals 
41/ Memes > land

People need to identify with myths first. I want to spend time in spaces that reflect my values, my identity.

This is the starting point. Tech/land/etc will follow myth, will follow memes.

They might have data centers, we have memes. 
42/ Memes > land

Land should not generate value from artificial scarcity because that is silly.

Will some land have value because someone does something awesome in or around it? Sure.

But that is the work being rewarded, not the land. 
43/ Art

I have been watching the Web 2 metaverses.

They are all corporate CheeseBallFests.

They can have khaki pants, we want @XCOPYART 
44/ Portals  OM is a 3D space, but it has portals, which can open up to vast other digital spaces.

Why? Because the 3D city concept does work I think, but ALSO because we can have some magic, we are not restrained by physics.

3D + magic is +/- my mental model 
45/ A bit on the current tech stack.

OM is powered by @oncyber_io"

Why? What does that mean?

OnCyber is trying something very ambitious, very unusual, trying to render big worlds in the browser. 
46/ This is intriguing to me for three reasons:

a) you can decentralize and make OM very redundant because it is mostly just files and files are very hard to stop

b) you can easy compose in the browser with all crypto applications.

c) everyone has a browser 
47/ It would have been easier / faster / less work, maybe more performant to stream this world from Unreal Engine on AWS.

But, for now, I dont see a decentralized pathway in that model. There will be single points of failure in those data centers.

We will watch 
48/ Is @oncyber_io and OM fully decentralized now?

No, not yet, partially but not enough. That is one reason we are still in alpha.

But I can see a pathway and @rayan_oncyber has a similar vision.

We will be acceptably decentralized in a few months. 
49/Now can you have a gallery (space) in OnCyber directly as before?

Of course!

The idea with OM is that you can still have your space as before, you can reference it as before, but you can also have it as part of a broader world, including... 
50/ ...a new multiplayer mode so you can see other art fans running around in the same space and chat with them.

And you know, lots more features needed here to make the social part robust, but you can see the outline starting to form 
51/ What about building my own metaverse like OM using OnCyber tech?

Sure, you can do that too, but note that this is a big project only for the largest orgs.

We are 7 figures into this project so far just in alpha; competitive scale will ultimately need billions of dollars. 
52/ My proposition lets all get together now to make something Web 2 scale, before they show up.

I think the current model is too fragmented, not every community metaverse or game is going to work. 
53/ If you are a civilian, a space is fine.

If you are the size of the typical PFP project, a district is more than enough.

I doubt we can, in aggregate, support multiple, multi-10s of millions of user metaverses 
54/ What if some other technology appears?

Sure, great, we are building a decentralized metaverse, with 3D files built on common standards, with a decentralized metadata graph.

OM can absorb any new technology. (So could OnCyber if they choose) 
55/ The part that matters IMHO is the community, the social graph, the proof of contribution graph, the memes, the myth, the vision, the goals.

Tech is going to change and evolve. We should aim for a level more abstract.

Memes>land 
56/ I need to take a moment to thank @rayan_oncyber and @nickmungiaa and the whole oncyber team for putting up with me the last 8 months.

It has been endless work for them as I asked for more and more unreasonable things. They did a great job. 
57/ And I want to thank @mintface who has been tirelessly curating the museum, also putting up with all types of crazy requests the last few months.

@krybharat @batsoupyum @ACthecollector @bonafidehan and soon @phon_ro who agreed to join the OM on blind faith b4 seeing a thing 
58/ And many more who have done a lot of great work and I will hopefully be in a position to reveal more soon, as we organize some things a bit 
59/ Now, now that I have bored everyone to death, let's get to the main event.

What is in the alpha 6529 Museum District?

About 25 galleries and over 2,000 NFTs (and a few Easter Eggs here and there)

60/ It has been infinity work and infinity fun, building this out and we are just getting started.

I am not going to give a tour of each gallery today because it will take 1,000 tweets, but I will do 1-2 a day for the next few days.

Just will note a few things to look out for 
61/ The Genesis Gallery of the Generative Art Museum. This is the biggest space by far, might even cause performance issues for some, but this is my contribution to the generative art community.

It is meant to give a horizontal view of early generative art.

62/ I will tweet it in detail tomorrow, but two technical things to note:

a) We managed to get the generative art to move in a 3D space, at large numbers simultaneously. It looks good, albeit at the edge of browser performance

b) A bit of signage, but more coming 
63/ The goal for 6529 Museum is EDUCATION.

Over time, we will curate and give proper signage for everything, interviews with artists, live events.

We want it to be the best place to get people educated on NFTs, from basic to advanced level 
64/ Sunshine Square

Just go see it

65/ General Assembly

66/the @lphaCentauriKid Bar, more ACK work than anywhere in the world.

Best thing about the Open Metaverse is that @lphaCentauriKid has agreed to buy all our drinks at his bar, for free, forever

67/ Who are these institutional looking people?

Oh yes, it is @6529capital Fund SZN1

68/ The Gates of Tulip

69/ OK, time to go in.

Arrow keys to move, E to open portals/space, F to leave them, space bar to super jump, C to switch 1st/3rd player.

Set your browser on your laptop to use your dedicated GPU, not your integrated one

OM INSTRUCTION MANUAL
QUICK GUIDE TO NAVIGATING OM EXPLORE OM IN PEACE Enter in Single Player Mode EXPLORE OM WITH OTHERS Enter in Multi Player Mode MOVE AROUND Use Arrow Keys or WASD keys (if you are a gamer) LOOK
https://6529.io/om/instruction-manual/
70/ Here is the link.

6529 Museum District
The 6529 Museum District is the alpha version of the first district of OM. For more info: 6529.io/om
https://oncyber.io/6529om
71/ Hello 138 frens

72/ One more thing, we have finally fixed up the website so it is not an embarrassment - thank you @6529er

6529.io

HOME
https://6529.io/
73/ Very briefly here is the plan.

One goal of all these things, push or nudge everyone to an open metaverse.

74/ (1) Education

This the most important part for me.

The more citizens, business leaders and public servants understand why this is important, the more likely we are to get to the right place.

Everything starts here and ends here.

75/ (2) The Museum

Great art committed to decentralized spaces and will support the educational mission

76/ (3) OM

We just discussed that at some length

77/ (4) Bridge

Far out stuff, how we bridge OM to physical world. Still working on this

78/ (5) Capital

I love this team. Endless knowledge of and obsession with NFTs.

They are currently raising SZN2 for those interested (accredited investors only unfortunately)

79/ (6) Collections

Yes, the Gradients, but @6529er and I have been sitting on two more Collections for 4 months now, too busy with OM to do anything about them. Hopefully this month

80/ OK, in summary:

oncyber.io/6529om
6529.io

LFG

6529 Museum District
The 6529 Museum District is the alpha version of the first district of OM. For more info: 6529.io/om
https://oncyber.io/6529om

HOME
http://6529.io
81/ We made this too though I have not figured out who is going to be tweeting from there

@OMby6529

(TIL - it is very hard to find available twitter handles with an "OM" in them btw - had to slap on a 6529 on it to make it happen) 
82/ Really, though, seriously, we are going to build this together. Join discord, make a working group, and lets do it together


OM GROUPS
We are going to build OM together. Over the next few weeks, we are going to build working groups for different core areas, as shown below. If you are interested in participating in the design of
https://6529.io/om/om-groups/
83/ Also we are hiring, though we ourselves are probably the bottleneck on hiring.

You see when you need to hire someone to help you hire people because you don't have time to hire someone, you get stuck is an infinite loop.


JOBS
6529 IS HIRING! Do you want to work with the most interesting team in NFT land?  Are you super passionate about the open metaverse? Are you a mature, self-starter who can work and deliver independ
https://6529.io/about/jobs/
84/ I think I am done with this thread.

I am going to check out the chaos happening in OM right now 
85/ omg

86/ In the metaverse, you can be like Drift

L: A drift billboard
R: A bunch of sitting on the roof


87/ Ser @DrifterShoots forgot to tag you in prior tweet 


2/ I present to you the Meta economic model.

Step 1: "Pretend NFTs" (centralized in game objects basically)

3/ Step 2

47.5% transaction fees!!!!!!!!!

3/ Yes, 47.5% to drop objects into here



Testing New Tools for Horizon Worlds Creators To Earn Money | Meta
We're testing ways for Horizon World creators to sell items and earn money through bonus programs.
4/ 47.5% 
5/ 47.5% 
6/ So long as we are not regulated out of existence (preserve non-custodial wallets), we are going to win by default 


1/ On the EU Giving Up

I watched a panel on AI (machine learning) at a conference hosted by the European Commission.

9 people on the panel

Everyone agreed that the USA was 100 miles ahead of EU in machine learning and China was 99 miles ahead except for those who believed... 
2/ ...that China was 100 miles ahead of the EU and the USA 99 miles ahead.

In any case, everyone agreed that in the most important technology of the 21st century, the EU was not on the map.

The last person on the panel was an entrepreneur. 
3/ He noted that the EU had as many AI startups as Israel (a country 1/50th the size) and, btw, two thirds of those were in London that was heading out the door due to Brexit.

So basically the EU had 1/3 the AI startups of Israel (this was a few years ago) 
4/ So the panel discussion turned to "What should the EU do?"

And the more or less unanimous conclusion (except for the entrepreneur) was "We are going to build on the success of GDPR and aim to be the REGULATORY LEADER of machine learning"

I literally laughed out loud 
5/ Being the "Regulatory Leader" is NOT A REAL THING.

Imagine it is the early 20th century and imagine that cars were invented and that the USA and China were producing a lot of cars.

The EU of today would say "Building cars looks hard, but we will be the leader in STOP SIGNs" 
6/ This is defeatism, this is surrender, this is deciding to be a vassal state of the United States and China in the 21st century.

The EU is already a Web 2 vassal to the US tech companies (none of its own, so it has to try to limit their power) 
7/ And it is a form of defeatism whose implications are just starting to show.

If the EU decided that it would not make cars in the early 20th century, the loss would not only be "no car manufacturers"

It would be loss of all types of industrial and manufacturing expertise 
8/ There would be no Airbus, there would be no BMW, there would no German companies selling high precision equipment to Chinese manufacturers.

The fact that we can sit in a hip cafe in Barcelona and not break our backs in the fields like our ancestors... 
9/ ...is because over the last 150 years, Europe industrialized and, in many areas, was the world leader.

German car manufacturing for example was, in many ways, a leader for a long time.

I think it goes without saying but I will say it. 
10/ Industrial capacity is dual use. If you can make cars, you can make tanks.

If you can make self-driving cars, you can make self-flying drones.

And while maybe in the future we will have peace in our times, today the world is still a rough place 
11/ If you want to protect European interests, yes, it is nice to project soft power and culture and values (I am all for it),

but

you also need to be able to defend your borders and your values and, even better, have enough of a deterrent capacity that nobody would dare... 
12/ The basis for development and industrialization in the 21st century is one and only one thing

TECHNOLOGY

Machine learning, cryptoassets, robotics, biotech.

These technologies will raise the quality of life for citizens/civilians but also drive military strength 
13/ The idea that Europe can concede the field in these areas to the USA and China and just be the referee saying "You can't do this" and "You can't do that" is a complete joke of a strategy.

Now this is not officially the strategy. 
14/ Officially the EU is for all these things, but done under the careful guiding hand of Brussels.

It won't work that way. You can maybe build military aircraft in a centralized way, but tech fields are built on startups, startups need flexibility and startups are mobile. 
15/ Given the wide range of actual and proposed restrictions on, say, machine learning and web 3, why would any startup that has a choice not try to launch instead in the United States?

And the best ones will find a way to do it.

And EU will be left with the less good ones. 
16/ The EU already has some structural disadvantages in startups - smaller fragmented national markets without a common language, less flexible labor markets.

If you add on "here are a bunch of rules that your competitors across the Atlantic don't have", well, good luck to you 
17/ "But not everything is about money 6529"

Sure, but this is not about money per se.

This is about industrial capacity, the ability to operate a modern productive society.

The social rights of Europeans, the social benefits are paid for by prior industrialization efforts 
18/ If you want your kids and grandkids to also have that sweet sweet European life, well you, anon, and your elected officials, have to do the work like your grandparents did.

The world is a competitive place, there are no free lunches. 
19/ The idea that the Europeans can rest on their laurels for 50 years while the Americans and Chinese do the work of digital industrialization...

and also expect that the Europeans will have the best lives in the end, well that is a fairy tale.

A bedtime story for children. 
20/ I am of European heritage and currently live in Europe.

I can assure you it is perfectly possible to grill fresh fish and drink nice coffee and also not have dumb ideas about the future of technology.

You can do both. The EU should try to do both. 
21/ Europeans are smart but often constrained.

America might do a lot of things wrong but the wide open space that it provides in its mythology is very powerful.

The EU should encourage its citizens to take more innovation risk, not less innovation risk. 
22/ This thread is a bit off topic from the focus on decentralized crypto rails (as a counter to the centralizing force of machine learning), but it is related.

The EU's overly conservative position on Web 3 is a subset of its overly conservative position on all tech. 
23/ The EU is the only other economy in the weight class of the United States and the only economic superpower that also believes deeply in constitutional democracy.

It is important that the EU comes along for Web 3 and for a rights based approach to digital architecture 
24/ If this is your first time here, our goal is that the metaverse is built on open interoperable standards, not as one company's walled garden database.

More here:


1/ On How Short Life Is

A few years ago, I was walking around in a blizzard in SoHo (New York). It was late, midnight, and it was beautiful.

Some friends, about 15 blocks away, called: "come over?"

It was late, it was cold, was tired, thought "maybe not worth it" but then... 
2/ ...I said "life is short, why not?".

It was a great night, we watched a movie, had drinks and generally had good vibes all night long.

Why did I go? A couple of years earlier, I had done the following calculation which freaked me out quite a bit. 
3/ Most of my friends from high school lived (and live now) in different cities than I do.

These are friends that I had spent every day with in high school and some I even lived with in my first years in New York.

We are still super close, I think of them as "best friends" 
4/ And I feel that we have all the time in the world.

Sometimes they come for business to my neck of the woods, sometimes for pleasure, sometimes I am in their neck of the woods.

Sometimes we manage to meet up, sometimes we don't.

Everything is fine, very normal, very nice. 
5/ But one day I ran the numbers.

a) I have hung out with a typical one of these, say, 1,500 in times in my life (mostly in school)

b) we were managing to sync up our travels, say, once every 12 to 24 months. 
6/ It is mathematically certain now that about 99% of the time I will ever spend with them, in the rest of my life, I have already done so.

It does not matter if I see them another 10 or 20 or 50 times, it is trivia in the scheme of things. 
7/ Prior mental framework was "my boy is in town, maybe we can grab drinks if our schedules allow, if not, no problem, next time"

New mental framework is: "tonight is one of your last 30 times you can see one of your best friends in your life"

 
8/ Nothing had changed in substance, I just finally did the math right and it was shocking.

If you don't live in the same city with your parents, the math is kindof similar for them too - you have spent the vast majority of time you will ever spend with your parents already. 
9/ I started doing the math, being realistic about being an adult with a serious jobby-job, about other things.

"how many more nights in da club"
"how many steaks at Peter Lugars"
"how many more trips to India"

WTF. The numbers are all stupidly low. 3, 20, even 100. Peanuts 
10/ That was the background to my snowy night decision.

how many more nights in my life will I be walking around in a magical blizzard in SoHo?
will I have friends a few blocks around?
will they be up for hanging?

I explicitly referenced the framework and went. 
11/ And boy am I glad I went.

These are very good friends. A few months later they moved somewhat away, then I moved further away, then they moved further away.

Now we are on the twice a year schedule. No more magical blizzard nights for us anymore. 
12/ And some moves and then two years of COVID have absolutely crushed my very pessimistic estimates to the downside.

The depressingly low numbers that I thought I would hit the last few years?

Turns out they were very optimistic estimates! 
13/ And there are real trade-offs in life.

Being safer re COVID, costs social life.
Working hard costs personal life
Trying to stay healthy costs entertainment life

Being an adult is all trade-offs, all day long 
14/ But coming back to this - life is short, your special moments are much much fewer than you think.

Do the math for the 20 people and 20 things you love most.

Be realistic about how often you have done them the last 5 years. 
15/ Be realistic about when you might start losing interest in some activities due to age.

Subtract the years, multiply by the times per year and look at that number.

How do you feel about that number? Good? Bad? If bad, can you do something to change it?

Often, you can't. 
16/ So if you can change it and you want to, then you should.

If you can't change it, then you have to make it precious, make it count.

Think of them as tickets, tickets that you use up over your life

"10 more party nights with Bob"
"25 more Indian dinners with Mom" 
17/ And when you realize how few and how precious these moments are, MAKE THEM COUNT

Don't skip them if you can avoid.
And when you use one of those tickets, enjoy, have fun, don't let stupid things get you down.

None of those things matter. 
18/ One day we will vanish and our problems will vanish with us.

Problems are a feature, not a bug.
Problems are for the living, not for the dead. Problems are an excellent indicator that you are alive.
The state of no problems, is the state of death. 
19/ But we are not dead, we are alive, so live your life, max out the goodies, the best that you can, max out your feelings with friends and your family.

And also your "career" which is just "the thing that you dedicate most of your waking hours to" 
20/ If you go too long and feel dead inside in your career, make a change, fight to find a better way to spend your hours.

Manage your risk and your obligations of course, but don't burn your very short life on things you don't like to do. 
21/ Lives are sometimes cut tragically short (millions in the last 2 years), but that is not what I am discussing.

I am discussing that if you live a normal length life it is so so short.

Make it count 
22/ There are two other essays along these lines I have found interesting over the years.

@paulg here: 

@waitbutwhy here:

Your Life in Weeks  Wait But Why
All the weeks in a human life shown on one chart.

23/ If you are new around here, we generally talk about JPGs and how they might be just what we need to put in place decentralized rails to run an open metaverse.

It is a big deal, even if you don't realize it yet.


24/ This one is also good from @waitbutwhy


The Tail End  Wait But Why
No matter what your age, you may, without realizing it, be enjoying the very last chapter of the relationships that matter most to you. Make it count.


1/ On How Short Life Is

A few years ago, I was walking around in a blizzard in SoHo (New York). It was late, midnight, and it was beautiful.

Some friends, about 15 blocks away, called: "come over?"

It was late, it was cold, was tired, thought "maybe not worth it" but then... 
2/ ...I said "life is short, why not?".

It was a great night, we watched a movie, had drinks and generally had good vibes all night long.

Why did I go? A couple of years earlier, I had done the following calculation which freaked me out quite a bit. 
3/ Most of my friends from high school lived (and live now) in different cities than I do.

These are friends that I had spent every day with in high school and some I even lived with in my first years in New York.

We are still super close, I think of them as "best friends" 
4/ And I feel that we have all the time in the world.

Sometimes they come for business to my neck of the woods, sometimes for pleasure, sometimes I am in their neck of the woods.

Sometimes we manage to meet up, sometimes we don't.

Everything is fine, very normal, very nice. 
5/ But one day I ran the numbers.

a) I have hung out with a typical one of these, say, 1,500 in times in my life (mostly in school)

b) we were managing to sync up our travels, say, once every 12 to 24 months. 
6/ It is mathematically certain now that about 99% of the time I will ever spend with them, in the rest of my life, I have already done so.

It does not matter if I see them another 10 or 20 or 50 times, it is trivia in the scheme of things. 
7/ Prior mental framework was "my boy is in town, maybe we can grab drinks if our schedules allow, if not, no problem, next time"

New mental framework is: "tonight is one of your last 30 times you can see one of your best friends in your life"

 
8/ Nothing had changed in substance, I just finally did the math right and it was shocking.

If you don't live in the same city with your parents, the math is kindof similar for them too - you have spent the vast majority of time you will ever spend with your parents already. 
9/ I started doing the math, being realistic about being an adult with a serious jobby-job, about other things.

"how many more nights in da club"
"how many steaks at Peter Lugars"
"how many more trips to India"

WTF. The numbers are all stupidly low. 3, 20, even 100. Peanuts 
10/ That was the background to my snowy night decision.

how many more nights in my life will I be walking around in a magical blizzard in SoHo?
will I have friends a few blocks around?
will they be up for hanging?

I explicitly referenced the framework and went. 
11/ And boy am I glad I went.

These are very good friends. A few months later they moved somewhat away, then I moved further away, then they moved further away.

Now we are on the twice a year schedule. No more magical blizzard nights for us anymore. 
12/ And some moves and then two years of COVID have absolutely crushed my very pessimistic estimates to the downside.

The depressingly low numbers that I thought I would hit the last few years?

Turns out they were very optimistic estimates! 
13/ And there are real trade-offs in life.

Being safer re COVID, costs social life.
Working hard costs personal life
Trying to stay healthy costs entertainment life

Being an adult is all trade-offs, all day long 
14/ But coming back to this - life is short, your special moments are much much fewer than you think.

Do the math for the 20 people and 20 things you love most.

Be realistic about how often you have done them the last 5 years. 
15/ Be realistic about when you might start losing interest in some activities due to age.

Subtract the years, multiply by the times per year and look at that number.

How do you feel about that number? Good? Bad? If bad, can you do something to change it?

Often, you can't. 
16/ So if you can change it and you want to, then you should.

If you can't change it, then you have to make it precious, make it count.

Think of them as tickets, tickets that you use up over your life

"10 more party nights with Bob"
"25 more Indian dinners with Mom" 
17/ And when you realize how few and how precious these moments are, MAKE THEM COUNT

Don't skip them if you can avoid.
And when you use one of those tickets, enjoy, have fun, don't let stupid things get you down.

None of those things matter. 
18/ One day we will vanish and our problems will vanish with us.

Problems are a feature, not a bug.
Problems are for the living, not for the dead. Problems are an excellent indicator that you are alive.
The state of no problems, is the state of death. 
19/ But we are not dead, we are alive, so live your life, max out the goodies, the best that you can, max out your feelings with friends and your family.

And also your "career" which is just "the thing that you dedicate most of your waking hours to" 
20/ If you go too long and feel dead inside in your career, make a change, fight to find a better way to spend your hours.

Manage your risk and your obligations of course, but don't burn your very short life on things you don't like to do. 
21/ Lives are sometimes cut tragically short (millions in the last 2 years), but that is not what I am discussing.

I am discussing that if you live a normal length life it is so so short.

Make it count 
22/ There are two other essays along these lines I have found interesting over the years.

@paulg here: 

@waitbutwhy here:


Your Life in Weeks  Wait But Why
All the weeks in a human life shown on one chart.
23/ If you are new around here, we generally talk about JPGs and how they might be just what we need to put in place decentralized rails to run an open metaverse.

It is a big deal, even if you don't realize it yet.


24/ This one is also good from @waitbutwhy


The Tail End  Wait But Why
No matter what your age, you may, without realizing it, be enjoying the very last chapter of the relationships that matter most to you. Make it count.


1/ NFTs, and metaverses in general, are absolutely going to be a boom for the enjoyment and promotion of art.

Every civilian I have brought into NFTs has gone from "talking 0% about art in their daily lives" to "some number greater than 0%" 
2/ Imagine trying to get people into generative art circa five years ago?

This was a niche field of the art world with dry textbooks and very specific galleries and museums in specific cities to see the originals.

There was no way to build engagement on a global level. 
3/ Now the combination of:

Internet accessibility
Largish collections (accessible)
Economic skin in the game
Personal online galleries

Make it more engaging and, guess what, when something is more fun and on the global internet, more people will participate 
4/ I will inevitably have someone in my feed that will explain to me that people are buying the "wrong art" for the "wrong reasons"

As if the "right reason" to be into art is to write long academic textbooks or pay up for the socially constructed hot contemporary artist 
5/ Real life art museums are both awesome (I love them, of course) but to large numbers of people intimidating.

As are galleries - the average SoHo gallery is *not* necessarily a welcoming place to a civilian. 
6/ We will reach orders of magnitudes more people using the power of the "internet".

And even more as the visualizations get better and more fun.

Soon art will be everywhere, all around us

 


1/ On dropping NFTs safely for your collectors

This is a thread for artists and developers who have existing collectors and want to give them something extra - a free NFT or preferential access to a new collection 
2/ In this thread, I will propose best practices that:

Do not encourage bad safety habits in NFT security

and

 Do not annoy large collectors

Doing this is all upside, no downside for you, person issuing NFTs 
3/ For those new around here, my long overview on NFT safety is here:


4/ For those more technically oriented, the elegant and long-term solution to the problem I am about to discuss is rights delegation embedded into NFTs/wallets.

But until we solve this problem in the future, we need to operate better in the present.



5/ There are broadly speaking three popular ways to give preferential access to NFTs to existing collectors.

a) Airdrop the NFT
b) Use the NFT as a mintpass
c) Use a snapshot of the wallet as a mintpass 
6/ Airdrop

In airdrops, you send the NFT to the wallet of people who have your existing collection.

While generally it is bad form to airdrop random things into people's wallets, it is not necessarily so with your existing collectors 
7/ For smaller collections (e.g. 1 of 1 artists), you might even manually check with all your collectors if they want the airdrop.

For larger collections, it is a judgement call.

Generally people will be OK with it, if they are already a collector. 
8/ This is an awesome outcome for a collector because you don't have to do anything and time is the most precious thing!

Don't have to find your hardware wallet, don't have to carefully check if you are minting on the right site, don't have to de-cold storage multi-sigs. 
9/ For the artist, it can be a bit of a logistical nuisance and you have to pay the gas fees, but depending on the situation, you may consider it a cost of doing business. 
10/ The second model is using the existing NFT itself as a mintpass.

This can be done more or less safely for the collector by moving the NFT to an empty address and then minting from that address.

That way, the worst case is that you lose 1 NFT, not your whole wallet 
11/ "But wait 6529, I don't plan to rug my collectors"

Sure, but things happen - maybe your contractor goes rogue and injects malicious code in your site.

If everyone mints from their wallet on every new contract, eventually one of them will be a rug. 
12/ While this can be acceptable safety-wise for collector, the collector may have to pay gas 4 times (move to tx wallet, move back, move new NFT to archival, mint NFT).

Even worse, if you are in a multi-sig, this may require pulling keys out of cold storage. 
13/ I have skipped multiple mints like this because it was just not worth it to go through the aggravation of moving something out of the multi-sig.

It has to be valuable and I and others need to be in the right places for this to be doable 
14/ Also, if you are going to do this, put LONG deadlines or no deadlines at all.

Nobody should be traveling with the keys to their archival wallets so, if there is a 2 week deadline for example, it is easy to miss the window to mint. 
15/ There is a nuance of this model which is "sell a mintpass" or "grant/airdrop a mintpass" that is separate from the NFT artwork

In other words, instead of having to mint with an @lphaCentauriKid 1 of 1, mint with a mintpass airdropped to ACK 1 of 1 collectors 
16/ This is a lower risk model for me.

I would be comfortable keeping a mintpass in a single signature hardware wallet, while I would not feel comfortable keeping my ACK 1 of 1s in anything less than a multi-sig.

And if a collector sells their mintpass, so be it IMHO 
17/ The worst model is using a "wallet snapshot" as a mintpass.

This checks which wallet held a specific NFT on a specific day and allows only them to mint.

This is basically a disaster security wise for any high quality NFTs. 
18/ It is logical to believe that people keep their best NFTs in their most secure wallet/address.

If you snapshot that address, you are asking (training) them to connect their prized wallet to random contracts.

This is a very bad habit and, as a field, we should stop it 
19/ I think it is fair to say that 6529 Museum and 6529 Capital will almost certainly not participate going forward in any drops done in this model.

Our core NFTs are all in multi-sigs and we are generally not willing to connect that multi-sig to new untrusted contracts. 
20/ I have no interest in auditing the contract, in trying to figure out how it works and so on.

Life is short, I am busy and also I am not taking on the responsibility of being sure a contract is safe.

Computer security and bugs are HARD! 
21/ So, to recap-the most elegant solution is rights delegation so, say, The Tulip sits in a wallet that never acts, but either the NFT or the wallet delegates minting or airdrops to a transaction wallet.

We need to get there to have composability & safety.

And we will. 
22/ Until then though, here is my tl;dr

Best Choices For Safety (collector dynamics to consider)
Airdrops
Mintpasses separate from the art NFTs

Acceptable For Safety (a bit inconvenient)
The art NFTs as mintpasses

Unacceptable For Safety
Wallet snapshots as mintpasses 
23/ I hope this makes sense to everyone.

Let's see if we can work together to make NFT land a bit safer, while we work on better UX models for wallets
 
24/ If this is your first time here, we fight for an open metaverse running on decentralized rails.

Many more tweetstorms are here



1/ Every time I post "get a hardware wallet", 10 people reply "but this does not protect you from signing approvals to scam sites"

This is of course true but a completely separate topic

The purpose of a HW is to protect you from malicious software on your PC, not from yourself 
2/ To protect yourself from yourself, you should either:

a) not go around signing transactions on unknown sites that you found in Discord

or

b) if you really must, do it from a burner address without a lot of NFTs in it 
3/ But how do I mint my Mutant Apes (or whatever) w a mintpass

Move your mintpass (NFT) to an address without anything else in there and mint from there

That way, you can, at most, lost that NFT

The major projects have never rugged, just make sure you are on the right site 
4/ Example: @QuantumNFT requires a Quantum NFT sometimes as a mint pass.

So I keep 1 Quantum NFT on a hardware wallet so I can mint and the rest are safely in the gnosis multi-sig

Even if Quantum gets compromised, at worst I will lose that one NFT, not all my quantum pieces 
5/ What about snapshots?
Snapshots are a bad security practice and should be discouraged. I have never risked the 6529 Museum wallet for a snapshot; would rather miss the snapshot

Projects should either: airdrop or mintpass so you don't have to connect your archival wallet 


[Fill in the blank]

"In the metaverse..." 
[Fill in the blank]

"In the future..." 
[Fill in the blank]

"We will seize..." 
[Fill in the blank]

"Get a..." 
[Fill in the blank]

"NFTs are..." 

Been kindof obsessed for months with these

Another one

Also, another one

Mega zoom in



Well done @emilyxxie 

Also

Also

And some more



1/ So check out the @CozomoMedici thread below for an interesting example of how the golden age of "enlightened" punk management of, checks notes, 3 days ago, was mostly projection by punks holders, not reality


5/ The approach by UTA, if as described, was a cheeseball-fest.

Nothing OG, nothing NFT-native, nothing web 3, not artistic, not even the slightest hint of enlightened self-interest about it.

The fact that this whole episode wouldn't happen this week is a step forward 
6/ Now some will say "oh, I don't want anyone in charge - I want to go to CC0 now"

That is fine, that is logically consistent. But commercial rights is better than no rights.

And the big execution battle in PFPs now will be commercial rights networks vs CC0 networks 
7/ Good luck to all projects out there and... 
 


1/ On Punks and Yuga

I have slept on it and my conclusions are were they were last night.

Going put to put them down for the historical record and we will see, in a 1 month, in a year, in a decade, how they age 
2/ First some background (OGs can skip the next couple of tweets)

@larvalabs created the CryptoPunks, the Meebits and the Autoglyphs

The licensing regime to holders was basically non commercial use only, with very limited rights as noted below 
3/ The rights to Meebits holders (and assumed to punk holders too) were:

Up to $100K per year
No digital collaboration (physical goods only)
No brand collaborations

They are, for an NFT, basically useless rights. Literally, you can make a hat.


4/ I have heard a lot of hopium by punks holders over 2021 on rights, where they continually projected onto Larva Labs their desires on what they thought rights should be, ignoring what LL was actually telling them extremely extensively in writing!!! 
5/ What I mean to say, if there was any ambiguity about LL's views on what rights punks holders should have, that ambiguity was gone the day the Meebits license was published.

Basically you had a standard artistic non-commercial license, with a small safe harbor for merch 
6/ @yugalabs famously made the Bored Apes and the Mutant Apes and famously tweaked the standard PFP approach by giving an unlimited worldwide commercial license to the holders.

I always thought the apes were fun art and the "you own your ape" was a good part of the narrative

7/ One more nuance:

- Larva Labs kept 10% of the punks at launch and has been slowly selling (434 pre transaction)
- The Larva Labs marketplace is no fee, so LL does not get any ongoing royalties
- Yuga did not keep a large number of apes, but gets royalties on every sale 
8/ This above point is quite interesting when you think about valuation because Yuga has an ongoing revenue stream from royalties (which tends to get high valuations) and Larva Labs can only make money from punks by progressively selling down or licensing their IP to others 
9/ @punk4156 is right on many things, but I am not convinced he is right on his view that PFP projects should not have royalties.

He views it correctly as a tax on liquidity, but the flip side is that it gives the artist/creators staying power.

Worthy of its own discussion 
10/ OK back to this transaction:

Yuga Labs bought the IP of punks and meebits along with all but 20 of the LL-owned punks
LL kept the rights to the glyphs
LL marketplace stays up
Yuga Lab converts punks and meebs to its commercial licensing model

So implications 
11/ WINNER: @yugalabs

Yuga goes from having the 2nd best PFP project in the space (but one that is less "Lindy", more likely to be a fashion project than punks) to having both the #1 and the #2 PFP project

Yuga owned projects are now probably closing on $10B in NFT market cap 
12/ A simplistic way of thinking about it is Yuga bought punks/meebs IP so punks/meebs IP has been valued at significantly less than Yuga IP.

This is wild for a <1 year old project. How can that be?

Isn't punks IP more valuable? 
13/ The reason is two-fold:

a) Most important: A big chunk of Yuga's corporate valuation is not the BAYC / MAYC IP but "hey this team is smart and capable and think of new things to do"

b) less important: ongoing royalty streams are quite valuable 
14/ So the absolutely simplest conclusion is that the Yuga team is absolutely crushing it.

Going from "random PFP project at 0.08ETH" to control of punks IP in less than a year is beyond the wildest possible good outcomes

They will generate billions of value for themselves here 
15/ NEUTRAL: @larvalabs

I say neutral for LL because my assessment embeds in it exactly what the Larva Lab team says about themselves.

They are artists, they are tinkerers, they are on the cutting edge.

They are not business people, don't enjoy it, aren't very good at it. 
16/ The LL teams made the first successful generative art PFP project, the first successful generative art fine art project and (I think?) the first 3D avatars

It is a huge accomplishment, it is a huge legacy, they are legends, they will always be legends. 
17/ The reason I say neutral here is the following:

I think they almost certainly sold the punks/meebs IP for less than a business oriented team would have been able to monetize it for.

But to do that, they would have had to be a business oriented team, which they are not 
18/ So, I think, contingent on them not being a business oriented team, it is an OK outcome economically for them.

If they were more business oriented, well, I think they could have generated significantly more value, but then they would have had to be someone else. 
19/ The LL team anyway has Level 5 type money.

They are happiest on the edge, tinkering with new ideas.

I don't think they would be happier running LL as a business for 10 years to make more money so I think it is a very reasonable decision for them 
20/ Good for Yuga for feeling this and going for it. My spidey sense felt this outcome possible a couple of months ago, reading between the lines on LL.

I considered this idea myself (raising money and making a similar proposition to LL) but never implemented, so gg Yuga 
21/ WINNER: Punks

This is going to be the controversial part, so let's start with the anti-case.

There are a lot of disillusioned OG punk holders today that feel that the magic is gone, that they bought "art", that they don't want a brand manager 
22/ First of all, I get that.

It is logical that if you bought a punk 1-2-3 years ago when it was wildly counter-cultural, it feels super weird to see the punks IP trade as any other IP.

It breaks a bit the counter-culture cool feel. 
23/ I think the best analogy for how some feel is "indie bank goes mainstream" so the indie band, cool kids don't feel as connected any more.

I get that and it is normal and this is in fact what happens when indie bands go mainstream 
24/ The more sophisticated version of this was "I liked the fact that LL were not business people and did not do anything so I would not have risk that they do something cheesy, counter brand, break the punks narrative"

I get that too - LL did not do very much 
25/ So these arguments seem decent, why do I feel differently? I have many reasons, starting with "from the day I read the Meebits license, I realized the median view in punks discord about the punks was just projection, not reality"

LL owned the IP and was going to monetize it 
26/ So once you have baked into your existing assumptions that LL was going to monetize (which I did almost a year ago), what are the possible ways?

a) LL starts running LL as a business (hard, not their style)

b) LL licenses or sells to traditional media companies 
27/ c) LL does some super inventive DAO where everyone buys in and owns the rights to punks (Gary Gensler sends everyone to jail, do not pass go, do not collect $200)

So I had eliminated a) and c) as real possibilities, so the only real possibility was b) 
28/ Relative to my expectation in b), Yuga Labs is a vastly better choice.

First and foremost, they did the most important thing they could do which was give unlimited commercial rights

Also, they are very PFP-competent 
29/ I was much more worried that LL would sell to a Disney type company and we would end up with permanently locked into some atrocious licensing regime with Disney-style lawyers chasing around every "violation"

That is over now, even if Yuga sells further. Can't be pulled back 
30/ How many of the important PFP projects have been a full commercial rights drop (a handful)?

How many of those teams have knocked it out of the park? One - Yuga

So if your prior assumption was LL is going to monetize, Yuga is almost certainly one of the best choices 
31/ Now let's say the quiet part out loud.

A huge amount of the static about Yuga is that a lot of punks holders think that BAYC is kitsch, think that BAYC holders are kitsch, think that yacht parties in the Hudson are kitsch. 
32/ BAYC is stylistically very different to punks and the holder base is very different to punks.

Here is what will matter in the coming months and years.

Oddly enough the best move for Yuga right now with punks is to do very little and keep focusing on BAYC-world 
33/ Yuga has done the thing that LL *should* have done which is let punks be more free on IP.

Yuga has no immediate need for money I assume, so they should just chill and see where community goes with this.

If Yuga does kitsch things next month with punks, yeah, that is bad 
34/ But a huge part of my analysis here is that Yuga has yet to make a wrong business move.

And this business move is a god-tier move within the NFT space, so I am assuming (here is my assumption out loud) that they get that punks are different than BAYC 
35/ Now let's get to the substance of my view:

I assume Yuga will be chill on punks

In which case, the thing that has changed is that punks now give commercial rights to holders. Is that a big deal? It is a huge deal, a huge improvement 
36/ First of all, punks have just become composable in digital world. The rights punks holders had before were explicitly non-digital. I can't imagine a more pointless set of rights.

The value of commercial or CC0 rights is not making a t-shirt for goodness sake 
37/ The value of these rights is that you can build now in the digitally native world.

What we are going to build? How we are going to build it? We will figure it out.

But now it is plausible, whereas before I thought about this time and time again and said "why bother?" 
38/ It also opens up punks for use by people / organizations with their own cultural authority.

If you have an existing brand (individual or organizational) why would you bother trying to figure out how to call LL and strike some type of deal.

You just buy the punk now 
39/ "But 6529, what if people do cheesy collabs with their punks"

"oh, hi punk holder, I believe in permissionlessness, not that you should gate-keep what people should do"

But I also respect your right to go to another project instead, BUT... 
40/ ...where exactly does one go where these issues do not exist?

- A corporate style RTKFT / Invisible Friends license (worse!)
- a commercial license (same)
- a CC0 license (anyone can do cheesy things)
- pepes (Matt L does DMCA on occasion) 
41/ You can't have it all.

Either a centralized party holds all the IP and you just have a non-commercial license or yes, there will be a marketplace of ideas or memes around the project and some will be cool and some will not be. 
42/ BUT WHAT IF YUGA DOES SOMETHING CHEESY and it is officially cheesy.

Sure, maybe. But as I said, on the margin, my guess is they are smart 
42/ WINNER: Commercial rights and CC0 projects

It is game over for how PFP projects should be structured rights-wise

The only two choices are commercial rights or CC0 projects

Nothing else is competitive anymore - Punks were the problem with this thesis & now it is over 
43/ This is an official 6529 view for new PFP projects

"non commercial licenses for personal use"
"limited license for non-digital use"

Honestly, NGMI in PFPs

Can't see why anyone would spend any time and effort as a holder of projects of this type 
44/ "but I am into my PFP project for the art"

OK, sure, you can like the art. But PFP projects are not like a painting or something.

The value is emergent, the value is community based, the value is network based.

non-commercial licenses are web2 in this context. 
45/ Btw, a side note to my very good friends in the generative art community.

You are not mentally ready to hear this, but the licensing regime for most generative arts project is also wrong.

Right now it is 100% restrictive, worse than the punks license 
46/ Generative art collections of a 1,000 pieces are somehow community and network based as well.

And yet basically all the projects except sea hams and a few others are "artist has 100% of the rights and you, holder have none" 
47/ "but 6529, it is art"

"Sure, it is art, but 1,000 set, rarity based, generative art projects are also some other things too"

Generative artists need social construction to form just like PFP projects do and tying the hands of their holders is not smart at all IMHO 
48/ Of course I support the right of artists to do what they want, but I doubt it is in their best interests to have an important generative art project, at the founding moments of networked digital composable art and to treat it as if it was a piece of canvas. 
49/ Somewhere in the multi-verse, Yuga Labs was a generative art competitor to Art Blocks that worked the community aspect more aggressively and the above would have been obvious.

We just know it is obvious in PFPs because Yuga went there, not to gen art 
50/ WINNER: Honesty
LOSER: Hypocrisy

"I fully support artists to do whatever they want with their work"

Larva Labs: Sells IP to Yuga

"NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO! Not like that!!!!" 
51/ "Punks are Schelling points of value, the fat punks hypothesis of 10,000 punks only and 9 aliens only means our punks are going to be all worth $1M to $100M each"

Larva Labs: Sells IP to Yuga

"I can't believe they monetized. I was just in it for the art" 
52/ LOSER: Punks v1 flippening punks thesis

The risk with this thesis was that LL would grant commercial rights to punks holders and now that has happened.

And since artists get to do what they like with their copyrights, they can grant it to whichever tokenholder they like 
53/ It is game over for that thesis, stick a fork in it, it is done.

V1 are a historical curiosity, perhaps protest art of some type.

But the idea that they will flippen the punks is ded 
54/ "Money where my mouth is" alert

6529 Museum has 5 punks.

I am HODLing (I mean this is not really any surprise since that is what I always do but I will say it anyway for completeness

55/ The @6529capital fund bought 3 more punks last night post the announcement - the pilot helmet, cowboy hat and wild white

I like this gang below. They look fun

56/ As always, this is not 6529's trading group.

I have no idea how punks will trade tomorrow or in a month or in a year.

And I expect some stalwarts of punk world will migrate now because the narrative they wanted to believe was never the real narrative 
57/ I think it is OK to be honest.

The person who bought a punk 1-2 years ago is in fact a counter-cultural person.

In a way similar to the LL guys. Both prefer to live on the edge and don't necessarily like the mainstream-ization aesthetic 
58/ This is fine, cultural objects, particularly successful ones, can far far exceed their creators.

None of us know the life views of Frdric Auguste Bartholdi, yet he left us a cultural gift for the ages.

59/ "But what about Seize The Memes of Production?"

Well, you have to go seize them ser.

The line is not: "Sit on your couch and expect someone to give you the memes of production"

Yuga has certainly done some seizing since last May 
60/ You can make your own art, you can buy and HODL art, you can make derivative art, you can focus on CC0 projects or commercial projects or none of the above.

6529 believes in freedom. There is a new cultural world forming, the possibilities are endless 
61/ Get out there, do things, these tectonic shifts only happen once every generation or two.

The amount of cultural and financial value that can be created right now is Up Only.

But there is no free lunch, you have to do the work

LFG 
62/ If you have come to this account for the first time through this thread, know we are here for one reason only.

To ensure the metaverse runs on open standards based rails.

More here:


1/ Not sure if I am supposed to laugh or cry about this.

This is what happens when the state leans on social networks to manage speech.

Even when the state is not allowed to do so directly ()


2/ "You can't advocate violence, except against Russian soldiers if you live on Azerbaijan, Slovakia and Ukraine" is the type of thing that belongs in a satirical book about doomed regimes, not the actual policy of one of the most valuable tech companies in the world

3/ Or how about this one - "you can't praise Neo-Nazi groups except for these 900 in the Azov Battalion in the context of the current war"

That is...weirdly specific, no?

4/ What is happening here is the democratization of media.

When you had 3 TV channels and a few newspapers, it was much easier to keep everyone from saying the things that you are not supposed to say out loud.

And so you got things like this...

5/ ...to Manufacture Consent.

This is the elite form of propaganda, or an elite form of social construction, to get everyone rowing in the same direction.

Everything you believe is a myth, a meme, an intersubjective reality and because situations change, myths get rewritten

6/ What is happening now is that the government can't just gaslight (or make a call to) 20 important reporters and get their talking points out.

The policy has to be written down so the Trust and Safety team at Facebook can implement it across billions of users 
7/ And written down, you see the sausage being made, the social construction being formed.

The substantive issue is that US/EU is concerned about Ukraine for geopolitical reasons.

But this needs voter support, so we need to have a storyline too about heroes/villains 
8/ BTW, I am not saying that the substantive decision is wrong.

It might be that our policy on Ukraine is exactly right.

But watching what version of reality is socially allowable this week is disconcerting. 
9/ And if you think this is bad, a closed metaverse is going to be 100x worse.

You can close Facebook and move on. You won't be able to escape your ambient digital reality.

Imagine everything you ever say having to be in line with the latest from the US press secretary? 
10/ The world of tech-enabled centralized control is a dystopia.

Machine learning/AI/big data is a centralizing force

Crypto is the only decentralizing force out there

Let's keep helping society to get to the right rails

 

1/ I like the mfers. I have no special insight on their future (let alone their price) other than I like their vibe.

@sartoshi_nft is about as NFT-native a vibe as it gets and his hands-off approach here is on brand.

The @6529capital fund bought an alien last week

2/ The 6529 Museum bought an ape and a zombie on secondary when they minted


3/ And the museum minted a bunch of humans during the mint

4/ I like the fact that the mfer community is so active in creating derivatives using the CC0 (public domain) license of the mfers.

Some colleagues/friends worry that CC0 is not great for PFPs.

I am not sure they are right. In any case, it is an experiment we must run. 
5/ What is the 6529 ecosystem going to do with all these mfers?

No idea, but it seems like it could be fun, so glad to have this mfer gang around for the ride

I have yet to meet someone to whom I have showed mfers to who did not have a positive first reaction to them 
6/ B4 the reply guys ask about the direction of floor price --- as if I care about such things....

Either mfers will be relevant in ten years (in which case price will be fine) or not, in which case, we ran a cool experiment. 
7/ The real question to ask about PFP projects is closer to "does this seem like it might be fun?"

My guess is this is closer to predicting a project's long-term viability than all the other stuff people talk about.

And, worst case, you join projects you think are fun. 


1/ SWIFT decision taken and I am going to take a "predicting the nuances" victory lap on this one that the media mostly did not get in advance.

Sanctioned banks disconnected, other Russian banks left on the system to allow for oil/gas payments.



2/ According to the Wall Street Journal, the main concerns were:

1) Allowing for oil/gas payments
2) Allowing for repayment of Russian debt
3) Discouraging use of alternative systems

3/ SWIFT disconnections are inconvenient but there are work arounds

4/ There is a background concern that this will push Russia and China to deepen their own messaging systems (this is obviously going to happen now)

5/ I think we can assume the SWIFT topic is basically done now.

You may not have expected that following 6529 will give you an advance heads-up on how financial system sanctions will play out, but here we are  
6/ The bigger issue, more serious are the sanctions against the Central Bank of Russia.

Russia has been reducing its dollar exposure but might have not moved enough exposure off the USD/EUR system.

This will hurt much more than SWIFT. 
7/ It will also have second order effects, in that China is going to be re-evaluating its reserves position this morning.

I find it interesting that the US/EU are throwing all their financial tools at Ukraine.

It will be powerful in the short-term, but expensive long-term 
8/ It will be expensive because all non US, non EU powers will start reducing reliance on the USD/EUR system over time.

So I dunno, maybe it is worth it to give up this tool in the future, but maybe it is not.

Difficult decisions, shades of grey decisions. 


1/ The last 24 hours in NFT UX

New @opensea contract does not work with @Trezor @MetaMask combo
PANIC! Revoke your OpenSea NFT permissions due to possible phishing
I think(?) latest MM build breaks Trezor T compatibility completely (but not sure) 
2/ I am easily in the top 0.1% of NFT/crypto sophistication, I have wasted several weekend hours on this and I am still not 100% about some things.

This is an inconceivably bad UX for any normal person.

We CANNOT mainstream this way. 
3/ These are not obscure edge case outcomes with obscure firms.

These are three of the five main infrastructure firms in the NFT space who are not coordinating with each other at all

Each of the teams needs to do better on comms, better on coordinating their release cycles 
4/ I fully appreciate that everyone is buried in work, but also the amount of capital available to major crypto/NFT firms is basically "infinity" right now.

They need to staff up.

Comms, for example, in NFTs is a 24/7/365 function but it is not staffed this way by anyone 
5/ I will give a simple example.
The reason the MM/Trezor combo breaks on the new OpenSea release is because MM does not yet support a certain type of signature for Trezor. The details are unimportant, the important thing is that this issue has been known for 1.5 months now. 
6/ The correct answer is for MM to work it into a release cycle before the opensea new contract launch.

The slightly less correct answer is for OS to say "MM is not ready, we need to release to solve the old listings issue, giving you 48 hours warning of this" 
7/ The least correct answer of all that the release happens, there is a perfectly predictable bug on one of the most common infrastructure combos, and then it is left to the community to discover what has broken.

I mean this is "worst practices" in release management 
8/ This is not OK for the level of volume that OS is doing.

It does not impact me because I am not an active trader, but for an active trader this is a nightmare.

You are stuck in your position (listings, buys, etc) with no warning. 
9/ This particularly punishes anyone who is taking security seriously and is working with a hardware wallet with seeds offsite.

It should not be fast/easy to swap into a different hardware wallet if your security is setup correctly 
10/ In summary:

@opensea @Trezor @MetaMask @Ledger and possibly others need a permanent working group to coordinate on releases

Communication should happen ahead of releases, in a timely manner and 24/7

Workarounds should be officially communicated by all stakeholders 


1/ On SWIFT

39.9% of you are right. Congratulations!

SWIFT is a banking industry consortium messaging system

The banks transfer/settle with each other or an intermediary (correspondent bank) via the currency zone's central bank run RTGS (Real Time Gross Settlement) systems

2/ Banning Russia from SWIFT will be very annoying to Russia bc all banking IT systems are integrated with SWIFT so businesses in short-term won't be able to transact.

It doesn't prevent a bank from making a payment to a Russian bank tho.

To prevent payments, you need sanctions 
3/ The US sanctions to-date on the systemically important Russian banks specifically exempt energy payments so Europe can keep paying for natural gas.

Taking Russia out of SWIFT adds admin costs to the payment process but does not prevent these payments from happening 
4/ I will be surprised if European countries cut off their own energy supplies.

The time for Europe to diversify its energy mix was 20 years ago.

It is not an overnight task and it is expensive in money, projection of geopolitical power and domestic politics 
5/ Diversification would be most or all of the below:
a) nuclear (domestically unpopular)
b) more LNG capacity (expensive, volatile prices)
c) redundant west & east med pipelines (expensive)
d) renewables + batteries (expensive)

All of these are 10 to 20 year projects 
6/ Having the most cost-efficient energy is not the same as having the most geopolitically secure energy mix.

Sometimes it means running pipelines thousands of miles out of the way to avoid potential future enemies 
7/ Sometimes it means the exercise of hard power.

Over the last 30 years the United States has spent trillions of dollars and many US lives (and countless third party lives) to secure stable energy supplies for US and global economy. 
8/ But that age is ending.

The US is functionally energy independent post shale and has been messaging to Europe for multiple administrations that it is not willing to bear the cost for Europe's energy and geopolitical security. 
9/ On this topic, the main difference between Obama and Trump is that Obama politely told Merkel that Germany needed to up its military spending and not do Nord Stream 2 and Trump just tweeted it out.

But the policy is the same regardless 
10/ The United States has been progressively reducing its military footprint in the Middle East for 20 years.

It has spent trillions of dollars in the Middle East and, broadly, it does not need to anymore, so it won't. 
11/ The world at large underestimates the USA's ability to go it alone

The US has various challenges but it is energy and agriculturally independent, impossible to attack externally and can ramp up manufacturing in a crunch.

It still the most well positioned country 
12/ Europe, on the other hand, has major long-term strategic problems:
a) completely absent in modern tech companies (largest EU tech company is SAP)
b) weak in next generation tech: machine learning, crypto, robotics, etc

But more immediately... 
13/ ...without a coherent political structure / political will to project power externally.

On paper, EU should be a big player - the economy is the size of the USA broadly speaking.

But any geopolitical issue becomes a debating society and there is no EU army to speak of. 
14/ Europe's high-level options are:
a) Consolidate into an international class military power, shift social to military spending, project forward to peacekeep its own neighborhood, build its own energy supplies and so on

or

b) stay within the status quo 
15/ Since 14(a) requires a bunch of countries who have quite different views about their identity and national security to agree, it is a very tough project.

Barring a huge forcing function like a direct invasion into the heart of Europe I do not see it happening. 
16/ There is no free lunch on this topic.

When we say the EU might need to project its own military power in North Africa, the Eastern Med and the Persian Gulf, it means...

....threatening to kill people or actually killing them (like the US did) 
17/ National security, in general, and energy security, specifically, is not a picnic.

Lives and whole nations hang in the balance based on leaders' decisions.

And, usually, leaders don't like to say this out loud. It is too raw.

The official story is usually "human rights". 
18/ I think Ukraine is in a very tough spot. I think Europe cannot, in substance, help Ukraine.

There is an alternative timeline where Ukraine played for time. Russia is in long-term structural decline and will be weaker in 10 and 20 years.

But that is not this timeline 
19/ Anyway, back to SWIFT.

If you kick out a bank or a small country out of SWIFT, it is a death sentence for international trade even without sanctions, because nobody is going bother building custom payment order channels for them. 
20/ It is unknown what will happen if you kick a country the size of Russia, that both Europe and China plan to continue to pay for energy, out of SWIFT.

The energy payments will continue, manually at first, but possibly with the Russian payment order system later (SPFS) 
21/ I have no doubt it will be quite difficult for Russia in the short-term, but in the medium term it might help Russia boot up its own alternative payment order system.

And China and India will be wondering if they need to do the same preemptively. 
22/ So I wonder about the second order effects if anyway you are going run a sanctions loophole for energy payments.

The West has effective control of SWIFT, including for intelligence purposes. If payment order systems distribute, it weakens the West's control. 
23/ I do not have an inside view of the systems and the US seems to be pushing for a SWIFT ban.

So it might be that it has examined the short vs medium effects and thinks it is worth it.

Or is responding to other political or other pressures. 
24/ But none of these topics are a 'free lunch'. None of them are solely about if the US/EU want to support Ukraine or not (of course they support Ukraine, as does most of the world).

But Ukraine is one part of a broader set of calculations in Europe/US 
25/ "Can we help Ukraine?", "What precedent is being set for Baltics/Scandinavian and other EU border regions?", "energy security", "preservation of leverage through the western financial system", "what if Russia cuts off gas?", "domestic economic considerations" etc 
26/ And hanging over all this discussion is the fact that the US and Russia are still the world's preeminent nuclear powers.

The Us and Russia/Soviet Union have fought many many proxy wars over the years, but have been very careful to avoid direct conflict 
27/ This is a wise decision on both sides, across many administrations on both sides

Proxy conflicts are horrible for the countries involved but do not present an existential risk to all life on earth as a direct conflict would.

I expect this pattern will continue here 
28/ There will be no direct NATO-Russian war.

Ukraine is, effectively, on its own militarily and should make its decisions strictly in its national interest.

The rest is going to be a balancing act of both sides of who is inflicting economic pain on the other side/themselves 
29/ I know this is tougher than the topics we normally talk about here, but it is better to be able to watch the news and decode what is being said than to not.

Sanctions, SWIFT, energy security, NATO -- all of these are being discussed in a very specific geopolitical context 
30/ We are nowhere near a post-physical world. Our higher order goods are still built on a base of hard geopolitical and energy security.

If you squint deeply into the horizon, you could see how a world might look different in decades 
31/ Highly distributed cost-effective renewables, a much deeper global digital integration, an overlaying of national identities/myths with horizontal global identities/myth might soften the geopolitical stressors over time.

But that is not where we are today 
32/ We have to work to build that world on both a hard/technical level and a soft/social/myth/meme level.

It is a project for us, for our children and probably for our grandchildren too.

And we need to avoid disasters along the way. 
33/ In the short-term, I continue to hope that the war in Ukraine ends as soon as possible.

War is one of the two parties doing their calculus wrong about the cost of the war.

The longer it takes for this to clarify the more people will suffer 
34/ But more broadly the rest of the decade is going to be challenging geopolitically.

The USA I believe does not have the interest (need? capacity?) in being the global security provider.

So regional conflicts are going to flare up everywhere 
35/ Crimea, Syria, Ukraine are the beginning unfortunately, not the end, of the USA withdrawing somewhat from the world.

We will see more countries try to figure out what they need to do for their own national security and some of them will be opportunistic 
36/ So we are going to have a very unusual decade:

a) on the ground, it will feel like a reversion to the past

b) meanwhile the digital world will accelerate into science fiction land 
37/ If you can get a "stake" (skills, assets, etc) in the digital world I think it is a positive.

It give you a level of flexibility during this time. 
38/ In theory, the digital world can be better in that it is non-rivalrous.

In the physical world, only one country can control a certain mountain pass.

In the digital world, this does not necessarily apply. People can live their lives in parallel, in harmony 
39/ But we need to work for the digital world to end up that way.

It will not happen automatically that way I believe.

We have to work for it, we have to fight for it.

 
40/ If you got here for the first time through this thread, please note that this is not a geopolitical account.

I care about how JPGs might help prevent an overly centralized future and so indirectly care about financial infrastructure.

1/ There are no other constitutional rights in substance without freedom to transact

Being meaning to write this for 6 months, but the Canadian response to the trucker protests is illustrating this so vividly, that today is the day. 
2/ I assume we are in agreement that constitutional democracies are a good form of government or, at least, a better form of government than the other methods we have found to-date.

This means that I am taking for granted the following assumptions. 
3/
- People have fundamental rights to speech, assembly, religion and so on
- People are innocent until proven guilty
- The state cannot punish people without due process, which generally means that, in a court of law, the state has to prove you have broken some specific law 
4/ If you disagree with the principles above, I guess that is fine (but weird) but probably you can safely exit this thread now because it is unlikely that we are going to agree on anything else. 
5/ People who know me IRL (offchain?) know that I have been harassing them for years that

"Without the freedom to transact, you have no other constitutional rights"

And mostly they look at me strangely and I look at them strangely because it seems obvious to me 
6/ Freedom of speech might require such activities like:
A website
A pamphlet
An advertisement
Paying a graphic designer
Travelling to a different location

All of which "cost money" 
7/ Freedom of assembly might require such activities like:
Taking a train to Washington DC
Booking a hotel room
Hiring a taxi
Buying a hot dog with mustard while you assemble

All of which "cost money" 
8/ Freedom of religion might require such activities like:
Renting a space for a facility
Paying the salaries of religious officials
Buying food and consumables

All of which "cost money"

I can go on, but I think the point is clear. The exercise of rights costs money. 
9/ Historically, the risk of financial censorship has been much lower because for the literally whole of human history until approximately 2001, it was mostly uncontroversial that people could have decentralized non custodial mediums of exchange 
10/ For hundreds of thousands of years humans used commodity money (from cowry shells to gold) and then in the last few hundred years we have had various forms of cash based instruments as well.

All of these are "non custodial", "decentralized" and not "KYCed" 
11/ Over the last 20 years, the institutional environment has shifted to a posture that non-custodial money is default suspicious:

Central banks who want the "death of cash"
Patriot Act and derivatives thereof
Geopolitical pressure points via the banking system 
12/ "But 6529 the goal is preventing money laundering, stopping terrorism and reducing tax evasion"

I agree that these are a) the stated goals and b) an actual subset of the actual goals.

I am also against: money laundering, terrorism and tax evasion 
13/ The problem however is that there is both short-term and long-term goal creep.

In the United States (and EU) banks and payment processors have been pressured to cut off accounts to gun shops, adult businesses, crypto businesses and other perfectly legal businesses. 
14/ I consider this to be undemocratic. If a country would like to make pornography or guns or cryptocurrency illegal, it has every right to pass laws to do so.

And then the citizens can re-elect or de-elect the politicians who voted for it and/or challenge it in court. 
15/ What happens instead is hidden "deep bureaucracy" type bullshit where the banks point to their regulators and say "well, they told us to close high risk accounts" and the regulators point to the banks and say "we never said that, just, you know, be careful" 
16/ And the net effect is that you don't have an bank account any more and there is no recourse, no due process, not even an actual law that says "you should not have an account"

It is "deep bureaucracy" running a parallel opaque unwritten legal system.

Deeply undemocratic. 
16/ Even in the current system, being unbanked and having to rely on cash is more or less ejecting you from the modern economy.

Paying bills, getting a paycheck, paying vendors, investing in 401K, buying crypto even, all require access to traditional payment rails. 
17/ But guess what? It is getting worse. Many central banks have stated goals for their CBDCs to:

Eliminate cash
Allow global transaction censorship
Apply deeply negative interest rates 
18/ A system of this kind would be the most powerful system of centralized control the world has ever known.

Even Stalin, Hitler, Mao did not have the ability to apply global transaction censorship across their empires at the touch of a button 
19/ What will happen is some aspiring dictator will censor their opponents' spending during a election period and they won't be able to buy a tomato, let alone run a campaign

With such power & no due process, it's a certainty. Power hungry people tend to run for office 
20/ Notice that the third goal is mission creep.

Nobody started this process in 2001 saying "the goal is to be able to apply negative interest rates to your savings" and yet here we are

Below a certain negative rate, people will withdraw their money. So let's prevent them! 
21/ The way this process has been working is that we are the frog and we are being boiled slowly.

Every year, the reporting requirements get a little broader, the penalties steeper, the restrictions on cash withdrawals more severe. 
22/ And most of all the presumption of innocence is turning into a presumption of guilt.

"why do you want to withdraw $5K in cash"
"if you have nothing to hide, why do you need non-custodial instruments"
"non custodial is dangerous" 
23/ I remind you that literally for the whole of human history "non custodial" was the main form of the mediums of exchange.

It is a very recent concept that this is a bad thing. It is effectively a quiet power grab by the state. 
24/ This is why one of the reasons that crypto has been generally disliked by central banks in particular.

Here they are, closing in on the 'end of cash' and now a new form of digital cash emerges and, in their view, they need to reel that in too for the rest to work. 
25/ So back to constitutional rights:

You have constitutional rights
You need money to exercise them
The state acquires the power to cut off funding

What might happen next?

I know what happens: "all of 6529 frens think he is overreacting" 
26/ At which point I present to you the liberal Prime Minister of G-7 country known for its extreme good nature and general easy-goingness

27/ Prime Minister Trudeau has a political problem.

The specific political problem is some truck drivers have blocked part of Canadian cities and highways to protest his COVID-19 policies.

This is: a) annoying him, b) annoying his voters and c) probably bad for the economy 
28/ I don't actually have a view on the substance of the trucker protests and if Canada's COVID policies are good, bad or neutral.

I would further guess that the truckers are probably violating a variety of Canadian laws relating to how they can protest. 
29/ What would be a normal constitutional democracy political response to a problem like this is either:

a) let it play out if you think it is in good faith
or
b) encourage the local authorities to arrest them and try them in a court if you think it is not 
30/ Either is fine.

The right to assembly in Canada probably does not allow you to block the highway for days for everyone else.

I assume Canada still has police and courts so they could presumably arrest the highway blockers & take them to court 
31/ When you go to court in a democracy, the following typically apply:

You are innocent until proven guilty
The state has to be specific about which law you have violated
The state has to prove it usually beyond a reasonable doubt 
32/ I understand that, at times, this is annoying for the state.

You have to collect evidence, the defendants will get their own lawyers, there is time and expense involved and sometimes you might not win.

This is the price of a free country 
33/ But this is not what is happening today in Canada.

The state has invoked its Emergencies Act which is defined below.

It seems a bit ambitious to imagine that the protests exceed the capacity of a province to deal with it or threaten the sovereignty of Canada, but...

34/ ...I am even willing to stretch and say "OK, maybe it was correct to invoke the Act and let's see what he plans to do with it"

What was done with the Act made my jaw drop however.

It is my "oh this might happen in the future" scenario, but today 
35/ Canada has asked every single financial system provider from banks to credit card companies to investment firms to crowdfunding platforms to crypto companies to insurance companies to:

- freeze the accounts
- of anyone directly or "indirectly" supporting the protests 
36/ Given the powers of the Emergency Act, there is no due process on these actions and no civil liability for this freezing.

In the short-term, the goal is to shut down the protests by nuking the protestors financial infrastructure. 
37/ I have to say this is not the model of criminal justice I expect to see in a constitutional democracy.

You can't just go around freezing people's savings instead of, I dunno, arresting them and charging them with a crime.

Even worse, the "indirect supporters" 
38/ The "indirect supporters" have been very fuzzily defined in the press releases.

It might include the crowd funders, but it might include a family member who sends money to someone protesting in order for them to buy a meal.

They are being treated as terrorist financiers 
39/ "But 6529 these guys are terrorists, they are trying to overthrow the government"

I dunno, I am not sure about this. I do not live in Canada, but Canada has a pretty advanced security infrastructure.

I do not think it is at any real risk of being taken over 
40/ But what is a real risk is that constitutional rights will be curtailed not through laws, or court cases, but through weaponization of the financial system.

Today, you are on Trudeau's side and dislike the truckers.

But it is not always this way... 
41/ ...would you feel the same way if Donald Trump was freezing all the financial infrastructure of BLM and all their "indirect" supporters?

It is a terrible precedent to set.

In politics, you must always, always, always invert 
42/ The way to judge an idea is not if your team in power should do it.

The way to judge the idea is if you think your worst political enemy should have this power and if you feel comfortable that the team you hate won't abuse it 
43/ It is a mistake to roll out the whole anti-terrorism infrastructure for political protestors and their 'indirect' supporters.

The next time around the "other team" will use it against you.

And this begets a cycle of political violence that ends badly. 
44/ I have just been discussing the immediate term effects.

The long-term effects will be worse. I suspect without explicit action, many of the people unbanked now will not be rebanked because financial institutions won't want the headache of doing so 
45/ So this is not just a short-term thing, but an uncertain duration ejection from the financial system.

No banking, no credit cards, no investments, no insurance (which for truckers means "no job")

This type of punishment requires due process 
46/ This can get so so so much worse though.

If we end up with a fully custodial system:
- no cash
- no non custodial crypto
- full control digital currency

then these type of actions can happen at the push of a button, instantly, across large groups of people 
47/ "oh 6529, we would never abuse this power"

Right, of course not.

And yet here we are with Canada, close to my least likely test case for "weaponization of the financial system against domestic dissent" 
48/ Every day, every month, every year I am here to say the same thing.

The internet, computers, big data, machine learning allow us to centralize information flows in a way that we could never had before.

It is exciting, but it is also dangerous 
49/ It is critically important that we don't sleepwalk into an economic, digital and metaverse architecture that is completely centralized.

Whether it is on the corporate or state systems, it will eventually end up under state control because states control the exercise of power 
50/ "but what about criminals 6529?"

Do you think I do not worry about criminals? I worry about criminals more than you do.

Unlike you, I think criminals are smart and can read and plan. Wait, what do you mean? 
51/ If you centralize the greatest honeypot of power and money in history in the hands of a handful of companies and the state, the really smart criminals won't be running around robbing banks, they will aim for corporate or political leadership.

And then they can win everything 
52/ Criminals working in their private capacity have done a lot of damage and we should try to stop them.

But they are minor players relative to the arch-criminals who grabbed power, launched world wars, destroyed countries, economies, cultural heritage & killed 10s of millions 
53/ tl;dr

Financial systems underpin everything, including our constitutional rights

Weaponizing the financial system to resolve domestic dissent or even criminal justice issues is a terrible precedent to set

We must preserve non-custodial wallets at all costs 
54/ Finally, I would like to thank the government of Canada for providing a sneak preview of what I have been worried about.

A lot of you will still think I am a bit of a conspiracy theorist (I am not), but fewer of you than a week ago will think that 
55/ I would like to end by wishing our Canadian friends good luck in resolving this issue.

I do not think this is the end of democracy in Canada or anything dramatic like that.

I think things will eventually resolve, but this is *not* the way to do it. 
56/ Bad precedents should not be normalized!

In any case, if this is your first time here, we love the open metaverse and believe in interoperable, decentralized internet architecture

See more here:

1/ NFTs are the most socially optimal art platform we have found to date.

Art serves multiple private and public functions.

NFTs have solved the problem of how to serve these functions simultaneously, plus a few more things. 
2/ Let's start with the private functions of art.

On the side of the artist, art allows an artist to express a certain point of view that the artist believes should exist in the world.

This is the creative/artistic/expressive part of art 
3/ Artists, like everyone, need money to live their lives, so the economic models that have evolved are, broadly:
a) private patronage/commissions
b) public patronage/commissions
c) purchase of primary pieces (private or public) 
4/ There is usually a bit of a trade-off between models a/b and model c.

When privately or publicly pre-financed, inevitably there is some concern about whether the financier will accept the art.

Lots of public financed art in the Soviet Union but it had to stay "on message". 
5/ Private or corporate patrons have the same limitations.

It is a very rare, very enlightened private or public sponsor who will finance art critical of them or their interests.

Model c) has the opposite trade-off. Artists can produce as they choose but... 
6/ ...there is a risk that the market may not appreciate their art, either at the time or ever.

The "misunderstood artist genius" cliche is this example.

Many artists (famously Van Gogh) were unappreciated in their own time, "ahead" of the market 
7/ There are private benefits to buyers/collectors as well. Roughly speaking the following:
a) cultural capital ("cool" to be an art collector)
b) access (access to other cool people)
c) price appreciation / investment
d) feeling of ownership
e) feeling of identity 
8/ There are also public benefits to art as well that accrue neither to the artist nor to the collector.

I did not paint Guernica and I do not own Guernica and yet Guernica has made my life better and richer.

Broadly speaking, this is why public and private museums exist 
9/ In terms of societal value, the public benefits in many cases probably far exceed the private benefits.

Whatever private benefits Picasso and the Museo Reina Sofia have from Guernica, the aggregate public benefits to "everyone else on the planet" are probably a lot higher 
10/ In traditional art, the private benefits for collectors and the public benefits for the public are in opposition to each other because physical art can only be in one place at once.

In the narrow case that you buy art for yourself and hang it on your walls... 
11/ ...because you want to see it, enjoy it, feel the exclusivity of ownership and identity, that is Very Good and Very Nice, but then only the 50 people who regularly come to your house can see it.

So a common pattern you see with collectors is they buy, buy, buy 
12/ then they get older and/or pass away and one of two things often happen:

a) they donate to a museum to switch the model to public benefits

b) their heirs sell the pieces bc the identity aspect is weaker / non-existent for them and they prefer the cash 
13/ NFTs provide a vastly superior model for maximizing private and public benefits at the same time.

The first and most obvious one is that NFTs have separated ownership and identity from display.

Everyone on NFT twitter knows for example that I own summer.jpg 
14/ I have the private benefits of identity, of ownership, of an art appreciatoooooor who recognized its genius early, of price appreciation but, at the same time, every single other person with an internet connection can enjoy seeing it on the same terms as me.

15/ Summer.jpg is not locked up in my living room, waiting for me to get old and/or die before I donate it to a museum decades from now so everyone else can see it.

To me, this is a huge benefit. It is also great for @XCOPYART whose work remains visible to all. 
16/ Sometimes non-NFT people, perhaps right click save as people freak out at this stage.

"But if everyone else can see it, why did you pay so much money for it?"

I find this hilarious. I don't want to hide summer.jpg from the world, like Gollum hiding his precious. 
17/ Buying art to hide it from others (or even worse hide it in a freeport warehouse in Switzerland for tax purposes) is the pettiest, meanest form of art collection.

The greatest collectors / benefactors of the past paid and built for whole museums for public benefit 
18/ NFTs in this case provide the best of both worlds:

a) the token ownership provides unambiguous proof of ownership

b) while there is full global public benefit and distribution without having to pay for concrete, steel, electricity and security guards of the museum 
19/ The above is the basic innovation - we will see over time three more forms of innovation.

The first is composability, specifically the fact that NFTs can be activated in any programmable environment. 
20/ We are on Day 1, minute 1 of what can be achieved with programmability of NFTs.

The difference between an NFT that be made active with computers and a painting or a print that is carefully hanging on 1 specific wall is massive in terms of scope of innovation and activity. 
21/ The second is rights management. It is rudimentary today but we'll soon evolve a machine readable standard for NFT rights - regular, commercial, non-commercial, public domain and so on.

This is a further enhancement to the composability of NFTs and accelerant to growth 
22/ The third is secondary royalties.

This allows art that is ahead of its time to still find its market price on day 1 (low) but then as the worldview/market catches up to the artist, the artist will benefit in the price appreciation.

It is a, in aggregate, fairer model. 
23/ tl;dr, NFTs allow for:

Better private benefits for artists
Better private benefits for collectors
Better public benefits for everyone else

*All at the same time*

It is a Strong Pareto Improvement where everyone is better off and nobody is worse off.


24/ If you are arriving here for the first time, the mega list of NFT threads and the open metaverse game plan is here

1/ Introducing the 6529 NFT Fund

On October 5, 2021, I laid out a game plan here. It is time for an update on how things are going.


2/ The current status update is:

 Fund -> launched
 6529 City -> v0.001 (this month I hope)
 6529 Education -> this month, definitely
 6529 Studios -> softer ramp up, maybe this month
 6529 Fam Card -> March (I have some wild ideas) 
3/ I will be back on the other topics

Today though, I would like to give an update on the fund, what it is, who is running it, what the objectives are and how it fits into the broader 6529 mission. 
4/ In October, I wrote:

"Organized capital is going to come into the space and it is going to come in size. And it will swamp the early native-NFT individuals.

Since this is going to happen, might as well be jujitsu-ed to serve decentralization objectives" 
5/ This is happening

There are a handful of funds in the space that have raised, more that are out there raising and, in time, there will be institutional capital in all parts of the NFT space

And because the funds can write big checks, they can influence the space / culture 
6/ I wanted to raise a fund with the following characteristics:

 NFT-native collector team
 Long holding period (10 years)
 Will live in decentralized spaces
 Maybe, if things break the right way, might possibly turn into a permanent vehicle and never sell 
7/ I am happy to inform you that so far, so good on all dimensions.

First, the team.

In addition to me, the collecting committee is:
@krybharat
@batsoupyum
@ac_collecting
@bonafidehan
@phon_ro

And @6529Guardian and @itsjpower provide legal and financial support. 
8/ I think for those who know the space well, there is really no need for me to say this, but I will.

The team is passionate about NFTs (obsessed even?), artist-first and deeply committed to decentralization. 
9/ The fund thesis is that we believe power laws exist in art & culture, as they do in technology.

Given this, the goal of the fund is to try to buy the best pieces we can, from the collections and artists that we believe are the most likely to make it in the long run. 
10/ The thesis itself is not that exceptional - buy the highest quality art you can afford and hold it for the longest time possible - is basically conventional wisdom among big art and NFT collectors.

The hard part is always execution. 
11/ A side-note confirming something that I have long suspected.

The overall team is more price sensitive than me, so the internal team chats are always everyone else saying "no, no, 6529, we are bidding lower than that"

 
12/ But 6529, didn't you tell us to watch out for institutional traps and, specifically, funds?

Yes, I did and this is partially why I am writing this thread to clarify what I can commit to and what I cannot as it relates to this fund.


13/ What I can commit to:

 I think we have an NFT-native orientation
 Once the portfolio gets put together this year, will have a long holding period (5-10 years we believe)
 We will be displaying in decentralized spaces (more soon on this) 
14/ What I *hope* happens but cannot commit to is this.

I hope, during the long life of the fund, a compliant and liquid market will emerge that will allow us to tokenize the fund and, therefore, keep the fund collection together. 
15/ I have explained my goal of tokenizing the fund to all the limited partners (investors) and they are conceptually on board.

However since such a mechanism does not exist yet, I cannot commit that to them or to you.

But this is my desired long-term outcome here. 
16/ To recap:
 We hope to buy nice NFTs
 We plan to hold them a long time
 We plan to do decentralization friendly things with them
 If we can pull it off, in time, we hope to tokenize the fund and keep the NFTs permanently decentralized (but I can't promise this yet) 
17/ What about the 6529 Museum?

Nothing has changed with the 6529 Museum.

The 6529 Museum is not part of the fund, it is a permanent collection and I am not selling.

In fact, the Museum will keep buying. 
18/ The Museum will also generally be buying more experimental work, from more emerging artists than the fund.

I already have some pretty nice punks and Fidenzas for example - don't really need more. 

The Museum will continue to buy "what I like" and "what I think is fun" 
19/ So, to make things fully transparent to the ecosystem, when "6529" is buying:

6529 Museum: I am the collector, the goal is permanence, broad focus, including emerging artists

6529 NFT Fund: Collecting team decides, long-term hold (maybe permanence), "blue chip" focus 
20/ I collect in public, so a reminder of my addresses:

6529 Museum Gnosis Vaults:

6529 Museum Transaction Wallets:
opensea.io/6529.eth

https://opensea.io/6529

https://opensea.io/6529Museum

https://opensea.io/6529MuseumActive

https://opensea.io/6529.eth
21/ The 6529 Fund Gnosis Vault for Q1 is here

opensea.io/0x8ba68cfe7155

There are too many transaction wallets to post given the large team size.

Everything will eventually migrate to the gnosis vault above. 

https://opensea.io/0x8ba68cfe71550efc8988d81d040473709b7f9218
22/ There is one inaccuracy in the above.

"Post Debt" by @XCOPYART is in the 6529 Museum vault but it was bought by the 6529 Fund and it was placed in the museum vault for safe-keeping as it was the fund's first piece.

We will move it at some point.

https://opensea.io/assets/0x41a322b28d0ff354040e2cbc676f0320d8c8850d/16
23/ The fund investors (LPs).

They are crypto native investors, some very well-known, who believe in crypto, but can't be looking at NFTs all day.

Also, any LP who survived a 6529 lecture, 99% about decentralization, 1% about ROI, and still invested, is basically Team Crypto 
24/ The fund is structured as 4 quarterly vehicles in 2022, hosted on @AngelList, and is currently raising for Q2 to Q4 2022.

Given the regulatory structure in the US, this particular fund is only open to "Accredited Investors who are Qualified Clients" & "Qualified Purchasers" 
25/ The fully compliant US-based DAOs like @FLAMINGODAO also operate under the same rules and restrictions.

So this will be the most 'institutional' of the 6529 activities, but with a hope even here to find a pathway for institutional capital to end up in a decentralized format 
26/ A security note. The fund vault is a Gnosis vault with the keys distributed around the world & *cold*.

So please do not think about stealing the Gnosis keys from a team member.

We don't have the keys, you won't get the JPGs and will just get in trouble instead.  
27/ In a few days, will do a fun thread with cool JPGs that the fund has collected so far.

In the meantime, will keep you all posted on what we are up to.

I have believe it is important to be transparent, so I plan to continue to do so. 


1/ Mini-thread

How to improve the Transfer function on @opensea @SuperRare @withFND

Over the last couple of months, I have transferred more than 1,000 NFTs from my 6529 hardware wallet to the 6529 Museum gnosis multi-sig

Improvements can be made... 
2/ I am pretty sophisticated and pretty careful and I spent most of the time terrified that I would fumble a cultural grail and, like the dead ringers, send it into the ether 
 
3/ Right now the transfer function on all major marketplaces is absolutely a raw, naked, unassisted transfer.

You put an ETH address in a box and off you go.

If you screw it up, well, sucks to be you. 
4/ What can go wrong?
a) you paste the wrong address
b) you accidentally hit a key and mess it up
c) you have malware overwriting your copy paste
d) you get socially engineered
e) other fun attack vectors 
5/ Fortunately, the sites can fix this easily with a 2 step process as follows 

Page 1: You enter the address, either by copy-pasting it in or selecting from your address book of addresses that you have sent to before

Then you go to page 2 (confirmation page) 
6/ Page 2: The site pulls confirmation data of the receiving address to help you before you hit transfer, such as:

a) ENS name
b) OpenSea (SR, FND) acct name
c) how many times you have transferred to it b4
d) s of what is in that addresses 
7/ Most people transfer among their own addresses so these prior activity indicators would all but eliminate errors in my opinion.

If I saw that I was transferring to OS/6529Museum and I have transferred 1,000+ NFTs to this address before, I would feel pretty good 
8/ The difference between usability and "where we are today" is 100 industry wide actions like this.

Software should be our careful friend here, checking for us before we hit 'submit' that everything looks normal.

We should view every lost BAYC as an industry failure 
9/ It is not normally societally acceptable to make a small error and lose $1M.

So we need to treat every lost/stolen NFT as an NFT industry manufacturing defect to drive out of the system so everyone does not end up on Meta in the end. 
10/ The answer here is mostly software. The underlying platform is permissionless and unforgiving.

There is no macho pride in reading ETH addys character by character. Software is great at boring stuff like this 
11/ As NFTs are about to go parabolic into normie land, every platform should have a specialized front-end team with no other responsibility than providing affordances to reduce user error (like the ones above).

And their OKR should be user errors/month/100K users.

LFG 
12/ See my exchange with @fluffypony below re malware.

1/ On Why NFTs Are The Worst Way To Sell Digital Art*

*Except for all the others that have been tried

Winston Churchill famously said: democracy is the worst form of government  except for all the others that have been tried. 
2/ I always read critiques of cryptocurrencies, blockchains and NFTs, well-meaning or otherwise, with interest.

Often, there is something you can learn, something can be improved, nothing is perfect, nobody is perfect.

I believe in human progress and that things can improve. 
3/ After I finish the "what I have learned" part, I then invert the essay/thesis that I just read and ask myself:

"OK, what is the alternative, what is the other way that it can be done? If the author was in charge of the world, how would they do it?" 
4/ Usually I find when I do this exercise that:

a) the alternatives are all worse
or
b) the author has not bothered to think about alternatives 
5/ For me, critiques are worth X and proposals for how to do it better are worth 1,000X.

Saying "this is a problem" and generically handwaving that there should be a better system and someone should go invent it, but being unable to describe that system is not worth very much. 
6/ Every day 8,000,000,000 people wake up and live, work, create, love, fight, get sick, get well and live their lives in the current system.

The real test for every change is not whether it is worse than some theoretical system that does not exist, but the current ones that do. 
7/ With that as background, let's take a moment to assume the critics of NFTs could get their way and make NFTs (and, by extension, crypto) vanish.

In that world, what does the sale and collecting of digital art look like? 
8/ Conceptually, humanity has, to date, only found two ways to record the ownership of a digital object:

a) someone writes it down on a ledger (physical or database) that they control (the "trusted third party")

or

b) a cryptocurrency/blockchain

There is no third way 
9/ So when someone says "I do not like the fact that you are using NFTs to record ownership of digital art because [fill in the standard reasons]", what they mean is that they prefer that someone is in charge of managing the ownership records and marketplaces of digital art. 
10/ I have found that an excellent question to ask these people is:

"Who do you propose keeps the records of:
a) who owns all the digital art in the world
b) under what terms of use
c) how can it be composed (used in different applications)
d) how is it bought and sold?" 
11/ The wonderful thing about NFTs (and cryptocurrency in general) is that there is no "who" in that question.

You can own a token in a wallet you own yourself, you can buy/sell it wherever, you can display in virtual galleries/metaverses, anyone can participate globally 
12/ In the alternative universe where this does not exist, there are only two options:

a) private companies run databases, marketplaces and APIs

b) National governments or semi-governmental orgs run databases, marketplaces and APIs 
13/ In the private company scenario:
a) well, it won't be one company, there will be thousands, so digital art will be fragmented in thousands of sub-scale companies / accounts / market places

b) it is fully centralized and a CEO and Board of Director are in charge 
14/ c) the legal (fiduciary duty) of the CEO and Board of Directors is to the shareholders, not to artists or collectors

d) If the company does not succeed in its line of business, it will shut it down and the ownership records and the art vanishes 
15/ e) larger companies will emerge and then engage in competitive fights in terms of composability.

e.g. just like the fact that YouTube does not work on Alexa, GoogleVerse Digital Art will not work on AmazonVerse 
16/ f) the platforms would have all the leverage versus the artists, and so things like 'secondary royalties' would never emerge

BUT, MOST IMPORTANT OF ALL, given all the above, nobody would buy high value digital art.

Why? 
17/ Imagine me, collector, buying a Fidenza #313 in this world, where I had to buy it from Art Blocks Inc, and the only place it was recorded that I owned this Fidenza was on Art Blocks servers.

So I would have to believe that AB would be around for decades and centuries 
18/ I like Art Blocks and I think the team is nice and capable, but the company is like 14 months old or something.

Of course I am not, at this point, comfortable that the company will be around for 50 years and therefore my large investment is safe. 
19/ The great part is we have run this experiment:

Digital art is several decades old
Databases are several decades old

If "buying digital art recorded in a company's database" was an exciting opportunity for artists and collectors, where are the big successes? 
20/ The reason it has not happened yet is the reasons described above.

People new to crypto/NFTs see the rapid rise in value, trading, volume and say, as with BTC 2013, "SCAM! BUBBLE!" and so on.

What we are instead seeing is product-market fit. 
21/ NFTs have unlocked the mechanism for a collector to buy a piece of digital art and:
a) have perfect provenance
b) have sovereign ownership (as with physical art)
c) have no reliance on a third party

This makes digital art more valuable and so values and volumes go up 
22/ For completeness, I will cover the case that "200 national governments" or the "international union of artists" will build a global, effective, interoperable technological platform and marketplace for digital objects in the metaverse.

My official statement is:  
23/ A government run version has most of the issues of the corporate approach (ex-longevity) plus new problems:

a) political interference & competition

b) the fact that governments appear to be wholly incapable of building modern performant internet based services at scale 
24/ So this is my tip to you. When someone explains the problems with NFTs, with blockchains, with the OpenSea API and so on, take good notes on what can be improved.

And then ask them to describe their perfect system. Pay particular attention to "who is in charge". 
25/ In these discussions, I tend to particularly enjoy arguments of the type:

"Your current NFT system has these imperfections from complete decentralization so I propose instead a perfectly centralized system" as if this is some type of "gotcha" and not, well, stupid. 
26/ It is an argument of the type:

"Democracy is imperfect to due big money, media, [fill in your favorite complaint about democratic imperfections]"

and so instead

"I propose as a solution to this imperfect democracy that I am made Supreme Dictator" 
27/ The analogy holds really well because the usual argument the centralized systems people make is "centralized systems are more efficient"

This is the same arguments dictators make.

Of course it is more efficient when someone is Supreme Ruler... 
28/ Being more efficient in the short-run tends to have a cost in terms of long-run innovation.

Companies, and political leaders, that are efficient and successful, in later stages move to capture value for themselves not the ecosystem, killing off competition and innovation 
29/ So I think this is a useful exercise in onboarding.

Have people work through an alternative idea/approach on how it could be done.

NFTs are not problem-free; they are simply much much better than the current alternative solutions to this topic. 
30/ If you came here for the first time through this thread, the goal here is an open metaverse.

40 threads on this topic and 1 game plan are here

1/ On Preserving A Digital  for 100 Years

Have you ever thought about this in the non-NFT world?

It is basically an unsolved problem, as far as I can tell.

Let's work through an example: 
2/ Let's lay out a scenario to make it real:

a) You are, say, 30 years old and will pass away at 80, halfway through this exercise
b) You have a 1 year old.
c) Your 1 year old will have a kid at 30 and pass away at 80.
d) Your grandkid will be 70 years old in 100 years 
3/ What are we trying to preserve?

Let's keep it simple - the few tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of digital photographs you have taken over the years.

Some family, some artistic

You are not world historical; you are one of us 
4/ Let's dispense with the hopeless solutions (and their statistical longevity)

a) On your phone (1-3 years)
b) On your computer (1-5 years)
c) On your computer with an external hard drive backup (3 - 7 years) 
5/ A bare minimum system I would consider to be reasonably likely to "not lose your photographs in the next ten years" is probably something like:

a) photographs on your computer plus
b) a redundant RAID array in your house plus
c) backed up to S3 on Amazon Web Services 
6/ The setup above gives you 2 to 3 onsite backups, (so you are generally safe from a local drive failure), with an additional several backups at AWS (so you covered from an onsite disaster - fire, power surge, virus on your network) 
7/ This setup covers you if you are:
a) alive and technically competent
b) diligent about synchronizing all these things
c) willing to spend $ x,xxx upfront and $ xx to $ xxx / month

It is what I do; it is a nuisance and you don't get much social utility out of it 
8/ I consider the above setup to be the minimum serious setup for anyone who is serious about their digital ry.

Anything else has non-trivial chances of being lost, even while you are in your prime. 
9/ Notice that I specifically said AWS (Amazon Web Services).

There was a time when Google Photos offered great almost unlimited backups. I used that too then, but never stopped using AWS S3 because there is no free lunch in life

Inevitably, Google switched business models 
10/ There is a second aspect re AWS.
I note that it is more expensive than other solutions (and others may need to go for less expensive options), but if you can afford it, well, the largest cloud provider in the world by a factor of [a lot] is the most likely to have longevity 
11/ So you are technically adept, you replace your RAID drives when they fail, you synchronize your phone, your computer, your RAID and your S3 buckets.

(this all sucks, is annoying, feels like enterprise IT work, not fun and social) 
12/ This can last, if you are super motivated, for 10-20 years, upgrading and updating your hardware and software along the way, dealing with new syncing and permissions issue as they emerge.

Fine, let's assume this is OK. Now comes the hard part. 
13/ What is the hard part?
a) you get old and less technically adept
b) you get old and less adept in general
c) you die
d) you die unexpectedly

What happens next? 
14/ Well, you need to assume that your spouse / partner / kid(s) want to now take on the mantle of doing all this PLUS doing it for their family, their spouse and their kids.

If "digital archiving" is a skill set in your family, sure, maybe this happens, but usually not. 
15/ And that is just the immediate years after your death.

You are counting on your kids to do this for 20 years and then hand over the baton to their kids (your grandkids) to do it for 30 more years.

So that grandkids and great grandkids can see IRL photos of "Grandpa 6529" 
16/ Are there ways around this? Not really.

You can't really prepay AWS, your credit card will bounce after your death, who is going to have your credentials?

Also, will AWS and S3 be around and/or work in the same way in 10, 20, 100 years? (I doubt it). 
17/ What if you pay someone to do this for you?

Then you need to think about succession planning for them and/or their business.

Most businesses will NOT survive 100 years

Your local library/university/museum has the exact same problems to deal with; does not want ur stuff too 
18/ Some semi-serious, semi-witty people say "print them out; paper has less obsolescence than electronics."

True, but a) unreasonable in era of 10,000s to 100,000s of s, b) paper over 100 year fades and c) easy to lose boxes across moves, generations, floods, fires 
19/ It is a tough problem - even though we have the greatest era of digital  capture in history - most of it will be lost.

I am in the 0.1% most diligent on this topic and I am 50:50 if I will manage to hand over the family photos down a couple of generations 
20/ It is in this light that I think about the the longevity of NFTs, which are as follows:
a) centralized server (someone has to keep running, poor)
b) IPFS/Arweave (protocol has to exist, someone has to pin)
c) on-chain (ETH has to exist)
d) above + social consensus 
21/ My sense is that IPFS / Arweave (or some easier to use future version) plus individual pinning, plus paying others to pin, is going to be broadly equivalent to my current setup soonish

In time, we ought to be able to develop better distributed systems than our current system 
22/ Specifically, what I would love to see in distributed storage systems with/without NFTs are:

a) better private/public models
b) more explicit approaches for longevity and redundancy.
c) better display options

So you can tier your approach 
23/ Remember that IPFS and AWS/cloud are just words for "other peoples' computers"

AWS at least can give you clarity about which regions you are using, how much redundancy you will have and so on. 
24/ I would like to be able to buy the following service:

For these 100 photos, I will prepay [x] for storage and public display for at least 25 years, with at least 5 pinners in each of US, EU, UK, Singapore, Switzerland, Japan, Brazil, Dubai and Iceland (total 45) 
25/ Why the various countries?

Geographic redundancy obviously and, also, regulatory redundancy.

You never know who goes crazy and tries to "ban" blockchains one day. 
26/ But the pinners should be tiered also.

I would pay 1 price for "Mike Smith to pin with his home computer", another price for "Amazon" and another price for "The British Library" to pin my photographs.

Longevity-as-a-service is a very interesting and unexplored area. 
27/ In conclusion:
a) Saving our digital heritage is harder than it looks
b) Off-chain digital longevity sucks
c) On-chain digital longevity has promise
d) lots of work needed to operationalize, improve and consumerize

I am net optimistic, should be doable to improve on present 
28/ If you just got here through this thread, we are trying to ensure the metaverse remains open for our children and their childrend

Another day
Another opportunity to

SEIZE THE MEMES OF PRODUCTION! 
Humans and ideas are in a constant environment of memetic competition.

And the winning memes determine what type of society you are in. Think about the vast range of societal approaches today and in the past.

It is just one meme winning more or less than another 
"freedom"
"family values"
"sexual revolution"
"human rights"
"states rights"
"God"
"fairness"
"piety"
"social equity"
"social cohesion"

are all memes, encoded short-hand concepts.

they rule everything around us 
It is easier to see at a distance

Lse-majest (insulting the King, who was often asserted to be divine, which was often severely punished) is obviously just a completely made up idea, like a kid's game.

But everything is like that, it is all made up 
this does not mean that memes, shared myths, rules aren't important, they are. society works better with them.

but the first step of enlightenment is realizing they are made up, they are tools and they may be more or less fit for purpose in any time.

seize them. 


1/ On how to make it in crypto as a normal person.

There is one rule only: SURVIVE! 
2/ Survival means four decisions:

a) Should you invest?
b) How much you invest?
c) In what should you invest?
d) Are you levered?

All of these are hugely personal, relate to your view of the world, your financial situation and, most of all, your psychology 
3/ The purpose of this thread is not convince people who are not invested in crypto to invest in crypto.

Nor is it to convince you to invest more in crypto.

On average, anon, I am trying to get you to invest *less* in crypto so you can survive over the long-run 
4/ The other purpose of this thread is so I can refer to it when people ask me what they should do in crypto.

My short answer is: "let's talk about the ballgame" (most people are still not mentally ready to not rekt themselves in crypto) 
5/ If they insist, the slightly longer answer is: "Buy a bit of BTC and ETH every month and forget about it for a decade"

If they really insist, this is my longer answer, so I want it for my reference and maybe it will be useful for others too. 
6/ Anyway, let's get back into the theory:

Crypto is a bet on a form of digitization, that we will represent value digitally and decentralized in the future.

That value can be digital gold (BTC), smart computing (ETH), cultural objects (NFTs) and many other forms of value. 
7/ Today about 0.5% (~1/200) of global asset value is represented by decentralized digital crypto assets.

We have about $360T in global assets (including real estate, but not including intangibles). The real total is comfortably above $400T.

Crypto market cap is about $2T 
8/ The details of the market cap calculations do not matter so much.

I think of it as $2T/$400T, but you can substitute whatever numbers you prefer.

I think you will struggle to get the crypto % above 1% or below 0.1% right now 
9/ For me, the macro question is:

"In 2030, will the % of global asset value represented by decentralized digital assets be more or less than 0.5%?"

For me, the answer is: "probably yes from a technology perspective, but maybe not because of regulation / the centralized system" 
10/ My first form of analysis is an "expected value" analysis. e.g

Say there is a 50% chance that crypto % of total assets goes to 1% and a 50% that crypto literally ends and goes to 0%.

In this case, we should be neutral.

50% x 1% + 50% x 0% = 0.5% = where we are today. 
11/ My view is that chances that crypto doubles are significantly higher than it goes to zero, which means the expected value is positive.

Therefore I would like to have an investment in crypto, even today.

[I first did this analysis when crypto was 0.005% of global market cap] 
12/ "But 6529, this is the dumbest expected value calculation ever, you should draw the whole distribution curve of outcomes, with probabilities at each level and sum them together"

Answer: No, you don't. 
13/ The point of this analysis is "do I want crypto exposure at these general levels?"

My dumb expected value calculations answers that question just as well as your super-fancy distribution curve 
14/ The second question is "how much should I invest in crypto?" and that is a very confusing question.

I think of it this way:

[your total off-chain net worth]/[total offchain assets ($400T)]
vs

[your total crypto net worth]/[total crypto assets ($2T)] 
15/ If you are neutral on crypto's chances from here, these numbers should be the same.

If you are positive, the crypto % should be bigger

If you are negative, the offchain % should be bigger.

No-coiners, for example, are the extreme case of the negative position. 
16/ For me, the crypto % is much bigger but:

a) My off-chain net worth is fine. Crypto can go to zero and I will still have a nice life
b) I spend some time professionally on crypto topics, so it would be strange if I did not have skin in the game
c) I can take the volatility 
17/ So the first stage is to answer for yourself, via some form of expected value calculation, if you want any crypto exposure in the first place.

If the answer is "yes", we go to the second question which is "how much?" 
18/ The correct answer for most people is "not so much that your life is impacted if crypto nukes, but enough so that it improves your portfolio performance if it does not"

e.g. you invest 2% of net worth. If it goes to 0, you can take the loss. If it goes to 4%, happy times 
19/ The longer answer has to do with my "Levels" framework


If you are L1, you are not in this discussion

L2 is really tricky bc you need the money to pay the bills 
20/ Most people asking this question are L3 and L4.

I think L4 can afford to take more risk than L3, on average

L5 are playing a different non-financial game altogether, it is strictly personal - could be anything from zero to a huge number 
21/ Keep in mind that most big crypto personalities, including yours truly, are some version of playing a L4/L5 game.

Few of us are wondering how to pay the rent and our actions and comments have to be taking in that light 
22/ When people ask me this question, I tell them the following:

"Whatever you invest, write it off to zero the next day on your balance sheet and don't look at it for 10 years" 
23/ Usually, they look at me shocked and then I say "OK, so invest less until you can say this to yourself and not freak out"

It is an excellent test of if you are over-invested relative to your personal situation and personal psychology 
24/ The personal psychology aspect of this is huge.

I have historically been much more invested in crypto than friends with similar net worths.

Both answers are right because I don't mind volatility in my net worth as much as they do. 
25/ The biggest risk to the average person's long-term returns in crypto is "crypto nukes for years, they freak out and sell the bottom"

Of my 2013-era friends who invested in BTC, almost all of them today own no crypto for this reason. 
26/ They bought at $300, felt great at $1,000, panicked at $300 (the second time) and now are no-coiners.

The most successful investors from this era are those who did the least. They bought once or they bought consistently over the years and did not worry about the price. 
27/ This is much harder than it seems.

Everyone is George Soros or @cobie in theory.

Very few people are this in practice.

When the dip comes, the usual answer is not "let me do a detailed analysis of my future options" but more "oh shit" 
28/ In other words, your psychology is the KEY factor to survival.

You have to know thyself.

You have to know how much risk you can handle and you need to keep sizing down your position until it is at a point where you can be long through dips. 
29/ When you can look at yourself/your wife/your parents/your kids/your banker/your landlord and say:

"BTC/ETH/SOL/BAYC is down 80% and I am cool"

then you are in an OK place for long-term survival 
30/ What should you buy?

I have no idea but if i was pushed by someone to answer, IMHO, the beginner portfolio today is still 50% BTC:50% ETH.

The intermediate portfolio is set aside 10-20% of your portfolio for other big fungible tokens. 
31/ Which other fungible tokens?

Which ones? I have no idea. Will AVAX perform better than LINK next year?

I dunno and I actually think pretty much nobody knows. 
32/ Many people will take directional bet on various tokens and then, next year, the ones who bet right, will explain how smart they were and the ones who bet wrong, won't.

This is what is called "survivorship bias" - people only tweet and blog their winning trades. 
33/ But what about NFTs?

Well, NFTs are the riskiest, most immature, most volatile sector of the riskiest, most volatile asset class in the world (crypto). 
34/ NFTs-out-of-your-entertainment budget are fine.

If you buy a AB piece for 1 ETH to hang on your Frame TV in the living room and you have the same investment goals for it as your Pottery Barn spending or going-to-Vegas budget, that is completely fine. 
35/ If you are buying NFTs to improve the returns of your retirement portfolio, you should be:

a) Wealthy & crypto sophisticated

or

b) A full time NFT collector (most of whom are actually in category a)

or

c) An artist who is getting NFT exposure through your work 
36/ "But 6529, look at all these ordinary people who bought a BAYC and have made $500K this year"

This is also survivorship bias.

Hodlers of 99% of the other new PFP collections this year that are down 75% aren't tweeting "#blessed, NFTs changed my life" 
37/ I have been in crypto a long-time.

The volatility in NFTs is breathtaking. 10-15% moves are daily moves in most collections.

The illiquidity dynamics are also very different.

NFTs-as-an-investment belong ONLY in the high risk part of your portfolio 
38/ Last question, should you lever?

The answer for 99% of you is "NO, YOU SHOULD NOT LEVER"

You simply cannot get liquidated if you don't lever up. 
39/ "But what about if I only lever up 10%, isn't that OK?"

The problem with this logic is "I am going to lever up 10%" is like "I am only going to smoke one cigarette per day"

In theory, it is fine, in practice, leverage is a hell of a drug and one day you'll be rekt and sad 
40/ "OK, but I read @zhusu's tweets and he was long new assets"

A few things:

a) @zhusu is an elite professional trader. You, statistically, are not

b) @zhusu has already made it. You, statistically, have not 
41/ "OK, but I read @cobie's medium posts about what trades to make, how to think about trades and so on"

A few things:

a) @cobie is an elite professional trader. You, statistically, are not

b) @cobie already has made it. You, statistically, have not 
42/ I am, statistically, vastly more sophisticated and experienced than you in crypto and crypto markets and I still don't think I can compete with the professional full-time traders

I read @cobie's posts with great interest and, they in fact, were very interesting 
43/ But I also was aware of all the trades that Cobie mentioned in his year-end essay and did not put them on.

Because in real-time, they are scary. It is obvious in retrospect that that AVAX will 100x. It was much much less obvious at the time of launch. 
44/ course, some of you, a vanishingly small % of you, are the @cobie and @zhusu of tomorrow.

This thread is not for you and you should be aware that you are probably not that person. 
45/ This thread is for "normal" people who don't watch crypto charts all day, who do not have the psychology of elite traders, who want to live their regular lives.

But, despite this, still might want to have some exposure to the thesis that decentralized digital assets are real 
46/ Trading is exhausting for most people, including me, and I have more crypto exposure than 99.9999% of you.

Like I am pretty comfortable with the bet that crypto will go up as a % of total world market cap.

But if the price is going up or down today, I have NO IDEA, none. 
47/ So I want to give you "permission" to not worry about the day to day price moves, the great trades you did not make.

Nobody, literally nobody, gets them all right.

It is OK.

If you are not a full-time trader, it does not matter 
48/ What matters if you are a civilian is, if and how much you believe in the crypto thesis, how you can implement it relative to your own position in life and psychology, and how you can do it with a 10 year time and not wrecking your health with worries!!! 
49/ There is no right answer.

I have good friends who know my views very well and probably even believe them, but whose psychology cannot handle any of the volatility.

They are happy to learn about crypto and watch it from a distance.

This is fine too! 
50/ For 95% of people the simple answer is the right now, if and only if, you want to make a crypto investment:

a) buy mostly blue chips
b) in amounts that don't stress you
c) don't lever
d) chill until 2030
e) have fun and enjoy this vastly interesting experiment 
51/ For 95% of people in NFTs, it is the same but even more so.

a) buy things you like
b) expect them to be totally illiquid
c) with no real expectation of an investment return
d) in the 'high risk' part of your portfolio
e) in amounts that do not stress you at all 
52/ The important part of the "open metaverse" is not:

a) "all-in the retirement account on crypto or NFTs"

but

b) "we spend our time, attention and building efforts on decentralized and open protocol systems" 
53/ If you over-invest, your likelihood of survival drops a lot given how volatile this asset class is.

Also, you won't have fun along the way, if you are constantly worried about financial risks.

"Using Instagram" does not require "going long 300% Instagram stock" 
54/ Or to put it differently, I want you all around in 2030.

If you are a bit chill on the financial side and don't ape it, there is no reason why you can't make it until then.

So we can build an open, web1-like metaverse, not a closed web2-like corporateverse 
55/ When I was a little kid, my grandmother would make me clean my room and do a bit of homework on 1/1 because "whatever you do on Jan 1, you do for the rest of the year".

My 2022 version of this is, well, here is a tweetstorm

HAVE A GREAT 2022 everyone!!! 
56/ If you just got here for the first time via this thread, this account is all about the open metaverse.

1/ On NFT Rights Delegation

This is a shorter thread, but I want to flag the topic so we start finding solutions because the longer we wait, the worse the problem will get.

We need to be able to segregate and delegate rights associated with NFTs.

Let me explain 
2/ We previously discussed best practices in security.

At the high-end, where the 6529 Museum now operates, this means a gnosis multi-sig wallet kept cold (with even the keys broken up, distributed globally, not easily accessible)



3/ This is a wonderful setup for security, but a nightmare for composability because it is a huge pain in the rear to get the wallet active and even if you have it active, engaging with new/unknown contracts puts the whole wallet at risk 
4/ So the correct model would have to be:
a) spend days getting wallet active
b) move NFT to empty wallet
c) do whatever transaction you want to do
d) move it back later
and even then the NFT in question is at risk

In practice, it is too much trouble 
5/ The solution to this is to allow delegation of various rights associated with an NFT.

In other words, you should be able to delegate other addresses for:
a) airdrops
b) for signing
c) for lending
d) for display 
6/ In other words, the ideal model is that you have, say, The Tulip, sitting serenely in a cold wallet that you never touch (since I don't plan to sell it) but other addresses can execute functions related to the Tulip 
7/ Example 1: Someone wants to make a derivative work like @AvidLines but for Fidenzas.

The delegated address for signing for the Tulip (which is an empty wallet) signs on the Tulip's behalf and no assets are put at risk. 
8/ Example 2:

The BAYC want to airdrop a token (I am not saying they do, but if they did).

I would prefer that token to go to an active wallet, not the cold vault where my BAYC are sitting. 
9/ Example 3:

Someone wants to make a game for Wicked Craniums

Great, again I want to delegate signing to another wallet to play the game, without having to carry around the underlying NFT on an active wallet.

It even allows you to play with hot wallets since you can reset 
10/ Example 4: A display software of some type wants to sign to display your NFT.

Your display address can sign to allow display of the NFT. 
11/ This not only restores composability, but it enhances it, bc then you can assign or sell or lease these rights.

e.g. sell the rights to airdrops for the Tulip for x period to y address.

(also means the assignments should have time periods associated with them, optionally) 
12/ I think this is an important topic. There is absolutely a zero-sum situation right now between experimentation and fun composability in NFTs and proper security

As NFTs increase in value and more people get better at security, the problem 6529 Museum has today will broaden 
13/ What are the solutions?

For new NFTs, it is easier. If we could agree on 3-4-5 standard metadata fields with the assignment addresses, then contracts could respect the values in those fields.

For older ones, I think it is more complex, interested in hearing views 


1/ On 4156

Today, and in the coming days and months, we will get to see the outcome to a question that I have pondered since I first followed 4156 (a long time ago)

I have very warm feelings for this ape. But are these feelings for the ape or for the voice behind it?

2/ I see this ape and I think "provenance, not copyright";

Oddly, I see this ape and still think "punk maxi"

Now that the voice and the  have split, that the identity has split, what will I feel? 
3/ I think, in my mind, the twitter account and the voice is still 4156.

I think if I am referring to this voice in a few weeks, I will still say "4156", not "the artist formerly known as 4156".

This part is quite clear to me (at least today) 
4/ What I am less clear on is what I will feel when I see the punk, the ape, the 4156 ape.

Do I still see the Beeple Ape (possibly, yes)?

Do I see the decentralization ape? (seems weird, this whole episode is the break-up between 4156 and LL on this topic) 
5/ Is this ape still the most famous ape? Yes, probably today. Will it be in six months. I dunno. If it just sits in this account and does nothing, does @gmoneyNFT make a run at #1 spot?

Do the apes become a bit more fungible after today? 
6/ What does the new owner do? Have a voice? Have a voice that is like 4156's (like it used to be), like 4156's (like it is now), like the opposite?, completely different?

If the new owner rocks 4156 as a PFP, which 4156 wins in our mind, the old voice or the new ape? 
7/ Does 4156 harden into "a piece of art", a historical monument, a museum piece, the most famous of apes, but now something on the wall?

Does it ride again as a PFP, a chameleon, a different voice? 
8/ Mass adoption is coming. Does 4156 rise as a different voice and a voice heard by millions of people, not hundreds of thousands? Does the new voice, become the real voice for most?

Does the old voice become a historical footnote for NFT nerds? 
9/ Is this different than RCSA changing hands?

Yes, very different. RCSA is self-contained. @2Yeahyeah is not RCSA and @CozomoMedici is not RCSA. RCSA rides and falls mostly on @XCOPYART's journey, not the collectors. 
10/ I always thought that this would be a thought experiment.

Never did I dream that we would see the experiment run in real life, let alone in 2021, less than 1 year after 4156 the voice was born.

We are about to learn so so much about metaverse identity. 
11/ I spend the last few hours debating this with @batsoupyum.

What does it mean? Should one buy this? What would you do exactly with 4156 if you bought it?

I could not settle on a point of view. I am relieved that it will be someone else's issue to resolve. 
12/ The history of 4156 sales (in USD to hit harder):

Aug 30, 2017: $0.05
Aug 12, 2018: $64
Sept 17, 2018: $645
Feb 18, 2021: $1.25M
Dec 9, 2021: $10.26M


CryptoPunks: Details for Punk #4156
CryptoPunks are 10,000 collectible characters on the Ethereum blockchain. These are the details for Punk #4156
13/ Everyone here will do fine.

@punk4156, mystery buyer, LL, punks holders.

All are living deep in the world of L4/L5 luxury problems.

Good luck to all and what a show.  


1/ There is some strange effect in crypto haters that turns even the most ardent capitalists into aspiring members of the young communists club.

I was reminded of this with these quotes about the metaverse from an Oct FT article 
2/ "This isnt about building a decentralised paradise where everyone can prosper and live in harmony; this is about making a small group of people rich."

I disagree with the substance of the statement, but this coming from the FT is just chef's kiss 
3/ FT is short for Financial Times, a newspaper focused largely on financial markets, plus a few lifestyle pages relating to spending habits of very rich people.

The average FT reader is, in fact, striving to make "a small group of people, themselves included, rich" 
4/ I mean this is fine.

Greenpeace and Bernie Sanders and the FT are all part of our global society.

Rich people need a newspaper too, ergo the FT.

But the FT being against people getting rich is so off-brand it makes you wonder at the strength of the hater effect 
5/ What I mean is the following. I don't ever remember an FT article in this format.

"Successful IPO of tech company on Nasdaq. Sadly, once again, no paradise for all, executives and VCs get most of gains. Stock market a scam. Wen communist paradise?" 
6/ So maybe it is the usual crypto hard-to-process mindshift, maybe it is a form of innovator's dilemma, maybe the issue is that their reader is not loaded up on crypto.

I dunno, but it is an interesting effect. 
1/ There is some strange effect in crypto haters that turns even the most ardent capitalists into aspiring members of the young communists club.

I was reminded of this with these quotes about the metaverse from an Oct FT article 
2/ "This isnt about building a decentralised paradise where everyone can prosper and live in harmony; this is about making a small group of people rich."

I disagree with the substance of the statement, but this coming from the FT is just chef's kiss 
3/ FT is short for Financial Times, a newspaper focused largely on financial markets, plus a few lifestyle pages relating to spending habits of very rich people.

The average FT reader is, in fact, striving to make "a small group of people, themselves included, rich" 
4/ I mean this is fine.

Greenpeace and Bernie Sanders and the FT are all part of our global society.

Rich people need a newspaper too, ergo the FT.

But the FT being against people getting rich is so off-brand it makes you wonder at the strength of the hater effect 
5/ What I mean is the following. I don't ever remember an FT article in this format.

"Successful IPO of tech company on Nasdaq. Sadly, once again, no paradise for all, executives and VCs get most of gains. Stock market a scam. Wen communist paradise?" 
6/ So maybe it is the usual crypto hard-to-process mindshift, maybe it is a form of innovator's dilemma, maybe the issue is that their reader is not loaded up on crypto.

I dunno, but it is an interesting effect. 


1/ On NFT Photography 1/1s vs Print 1/1s

I have had a lot of photographers discuss this with me in DMs and there is a discussion online today.

Since there a lot of dimensions to this question, I am going to lay out my overall views here 
2/ I am going to cover:
a) the legal position
b) old v new photographs
c) my view
d) what I think others will think 
3/ The legal position is crystal-clear. In absence of another agreement, the photographer has the right to issue an NFT 1/1, a print 1/1, a coffee mug, a t-shirt and so on, from the same .

They retain the copyright. 
4/ I would also like to dispense of the topic of 'old' photographs that have already been issued in print bc think the dynamics are different.

There are a lot of famous photographs that have been featured in print as well that have/will be issued as NFTs.

I think this is fine 
5/ In general, I think the business dynamics for famous print photographers are different.

If a famous photographer had a photograph on the cover of NatGeo and then issues an NFT, the NFT collectors would buy bc of the NatGeo cover, not despite it! 
6/ I would like to focus on 'new' 1/1 photographs that have not been issued either as a 1/1 NFT or as a 1/1 print.

In a case like this, what should the photographer do?

I mean, they should do whatever they want, but what are the tradeoffs? 
7/ One point of view is that the NFT and the print edition are different things and the artist can sell both.

Just like you can buy a Haring 1/1 and edition and t-shirt of the same thing, the same applies here.

In this view, this is just normal course of artist business 
8/ A more 'advanced' point of view of the same is that 'exposure is good for the NFT', so selling a 1/1 print helps.

While I am a well-known fan of the 'exposure helps' theory (all the way to buying public domain NFTs), I think it is a bit of a stretch... 
9/ ...to say that selling 1 print is going to help with exposure.

The general idea of "provenance, not copyright" from a business perspective is broad exposure, not 1 more print in someone's house.

(but what if the print sale is to the MOMA? is that different?) 
10/ The flip argument to this is that NFTs can provide better liquidity to photographers, give them access to a global market and, as such, why not prioritize them over prints, not because "you have to" but because "you want to as a business decision" 
11/ Let me state for the record that I, as a collector, do not care.

I have bought NFTs that have corresponding prints, that are public domain, that are NFT only.

It does not matter to me personally.

But... 
12/ ...for better or for worse, I do think it DOES bother some other buyers.

I think the potential issue is that it blurs the line about which one is the original.

Let's go back to TradArt

Warhol soup cans: 1/1 in MOMA, print editions 250 each, posters unlimited. It's clear 
13/ Now if there is a 1/1 print and a 1/1 NFT, which one is the "original"?

If there is a 1/1 NFT and also an open edition poster on Amazon, then the hierarchy is clear.

I think it is the 2 x 1/1 that is potentially confusing 
14/ Because I am doing the economist thing here - on one hand this and on the other hand that, I will give also a summary view.

This view does not apply to:
a) famous photographers (they have already made it)
b) s already in print
c) creative experiments 
15/ I believe that for any given piece of art, the NFT version of it, *in most cases*, will be more valuable than the off-chain version of it due to:
a) perfect provenance
b) global marketplace of buyers
c) composability
d) better storage / maintenance 
16/ I think we are seeing this with generally higher prices for NFTs relative to artist 'famousness' than in TradArt.

This is either a bubble (hater view) or because it is a better medium/distribution system (my view). 
17/ If you believe #15 and #16, then for new artists, it makes sense to lean into the NFT as being the definitive 1/1 of your work.

You are likely to capture more value that way than mixing the question of provenance between the NFT and a 1/1 print 
18/ This might sound counterintuitive but I think you are better off having a 1/1 NFT and many prints than a 1/1 NFT and 1 print.

The former preserves the hierarchy we know from TradArt (MOMA is not threatened by soup can posters, but in fact helped).

The latter is confusing 
19/ I would also aim to be fully transparent about your plans and pricing of your plans

Let's give some examples below on how to describe the plans for an 

a) A 1/1 NFT and this is the only way / time I am issuing this  
20/ b) A 1/1 NFT and will make 1 signed print for collector

c) A 1/1 NFT and a 1/1 print

If you think about this is b) with an extra charge really...

Also, compare to Fidenzas. Would it be strange if @tylerxhobbs sold the print only to someone *other* than the token holder? 
21/

d) A 1/1 NFT and open edition prints

e) A 1/1 NFT along with commercial rights

f) A 1/1 NFT and shared commercial rights (I did this with @gabscanu)

g) A 1/1 NFT and release non-commercial rights

h) A 1/1 NFT and release to public domain 
22/ I think both artists and collectors should read through the above and see how their heart feels.

And if / how it impacts value.

I buy across all variations, but I do think c) is possibly the least interesting. It potentially confuses provenance without any big other gains 
23/ I want to reemphasize transparency.

Photographers imho have been much less good at communicating and managing their issuance plans than other artists (tradart and NFT).

There is no confusion about @XCOPYART 1/1s vs editions or on @tylerxhobbs's approach to NFTs/prints 
24/ I have been offered free prints by NFT photographers (that I have bought), I have been shown prints bought by others by NFT photographers that I have bought.

I can count on *zero* fingers the number of photographers who actually *explained* their print plans to me. 
25/ The only NFT photographs for which I know the plans are the CC0 (public domain ones) where I know it is "everyone in the world can do whatever they want"

For all the rest, I think mostly it has not been thought out well. 
26/ tl;dr

Consider making the NFT 1/1 the 'original'
Communicate your plans
Make more art
 

Time to live on the edge a bit.

We have 17 Gradient owners (great) and this is taking too long (not great)

For the very first time, going to send 4 Gradients live simultaneously 

Gradient #89 is live (#90 is staying in-house for now)


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/89
As is Gradient #11 (#10 is staying in-house for now)


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/11
As is Gradient #88


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/88
As is Gradient #12


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/12
Time to check out what "4 auctions at a time" dynamics look like



1/ Thank you @yongoh_kim. 

I came across @yongoh_kim's work a few weeks ago via his Travel India collection. I have spent a lot of time in India and I found his lens on India so unique.

Very happy for his @SuperRare Genesis piece to join the 6529 Museum

2/ In the 6529 Museum gallery below, you can see the almost complete Travel India series (95/100 or so of the editions and 1/1s) and all of the Travel China series

I think it is lovely to see the whole India journey together in one place

oncyber.io/6529yongoh
3/ And for those holders of the 5 'missing' pieces in Travel India that I previously bid on, it might be nice if we could get them together with their brethren.

You can reach out to me if you like; if not, it is fine, I am very happy with how this is.  
4/ I just realized the first tweet does not have the actual SR Genesis piece.

Here it is




1/ On How To Secure Your NFTs

Where are your NFTs out in the metaverse?
How do you store them?
How do you keep people from stealing them?!
How do you pass down your Grails to your grandkids?

Lets find out! 
2/ There is a lot of confusion about wallets and NFT storage.

This thread is going to try to cover everything from basics for our new NFTs frens to some advanced topics for s

Make sure you click read more after tweet #30 because we are going to #30 and beyond! 
3/ Disclaimers:

Security is hard, you may make mistakes, I may make mistakes, new attack vectors might emerge

I discuss specific solutions. They might have bugs, there might be other better solutions

So this is my best view, but I cant take responsibility for your NFTs 
4/ The first part of this thread is not going to discuss any particular wallet, but the general concepts on how ETH stores and secures tokens.

For some, these will be trivial and obvious.

For others, confusing and you will have to re-read. 
5/ You need to understand these concepts first.

Otherwise, you wont ever really understand what you are doing with your wallet.

I reference ETH in this thread for simplicity, but the same general concepts apply to many other chains 
6/ OK, LFG

Lets start with where are your NFTs?

No, actually lets start with where your NFTs are not:

 Metamask
 Your computer
 Your Trezor
 Your Ledger 
7/ Your NFT is a token.

That token is on the Ethereum blockchain, a copy of which is being held by the 3,000 or so Ethereum nodes that are running globally.


https://etherscan.io/nodetracker
8/ What is great about this is the level of backup and redundancy you have

It is nice to have a backup of your files. Right now, for your ETH tokens, you have about 3,000 backups distributed around the world

And anyone, including you, could add another backup to the system 
9/ So, to say it another way

When you sell an NFT to someone else, nothing is moving from your computer/trezor to their computer/trezor.

All that is happening is that the database that is the ETH blockchain is changing the entry for which address the NFT is owned by. 
10/ What about the JPG? Where is that?

Your NFT has a URI field (like a URL) that points to where the JPG is.

The best practice is that it is on IPFS or Arweave which is decentralized storage.

Alternatively, it might be on someones server (centralized). 
11/ But the cloud (centralized or decentralized) is still just a server somewhere.

The main difference between IPFS and AWS is that anyone (including you) can join your computer to IPFS and decide to also store any particular IPFS object (including your JPG) 
12/ Some art (usually generative art) is completely on-chain

This means that the instructions to draw the art is contained in the token itself.

This means the art is stored on the ETH blockchain, right with the token. 
13/ So let's go to the next step and discuss public keys and private keys

A public key is an ETH address
0x98b7AAeb419394b13D46C9508d79b335FF6D98A0

(This is an address used for small 6529 acquisitions. Mostly spam there now) 
14/ The best analogy for a public key is an email address.

You can safely share it publicly and people can send things to it.

Those things are most typically:
- ETH
- ERC20 Tokens (fungible tokens, like UNI or SUSHI)
- ERC721 or ERC1155 tokens (non-fungible tokens aka NFTs) 
15/ Like email, you have no control over what people send to your public address so you receive spam.

My addresses receive a lot of spam NFTs from people who want to get my attention or want to trick others into thinking that I bought from those collections. 
16/ Unlike email, your inbox is also public

Everyone can see every transaction in every ETH address and what assets are currently stored there

You can go here & see what is at this address: etherscan.io/address/0x98b7

Mostly some small NFT transactions & some spam right now 

https://etherscan.io/address/0x98b7AAeb419394b13D46C9508d79b335FF6D98A0
17/ So your public key is also NOT what you are storing and trying to keep safe.

What you are trying to keep safe is your PRIVATE KEY.

Your Private Key is your password for your public key/address. 
18/ What the private key primarily allows is for you:

a) to move tokens out of your address

b) sign messages proving you have the private key for that address 
19/ Unlike your public key, you must never ever show your private key to anyone.

If someone has your private key, it is GAME OVER.

They can very quickly take every single asset  ETH, fungible tokens, NFTs  from your address.

It is the keys to the kingdom 
20/ Now we are starting to get closer to the main event.

A wallet is a piece of software that contains a set of private keys.

A private key controls a public key. 
21/ Every wallet, whether software or hardware, is just this.

A piece of software that holds a set of private keys that allow you to execute transactions on specific ETH addresses. 
22/ There are a couple of more concepts we need to introduce. The first is the seed phrase.

A seed phrase is a set of 12, 18, 24 (or more) words.

If your private key is your password, your seed phrase is your password recovery method. 
23/ If you lose your private keys, you can recreate them from your seed phrase.

As with your private key, never ever share your seed phrase.

Once someone has it, your wallet will be emptied 
24/ The last concept is the passphrase. The passphrase is an unusual concept with no good IRL analogy.

It is a series of characters/words that, when combined with your seed phrase, creates a wallet with a set of private keys 
25/ In other words, if I created my wallet/private keys with:

seed phrase + apple
seed phrase + nft
seed phrase + 6529
seed phrase + seize the memes of production

Each one would create a wallet with different private keys for different public keys (addresses) 
26/ What is strange about passphrases is that there are no wrong answers.

If you put the wrong passphrase, you dont get some type of error message, you just get a different set of private keys that work fine, but dont have your tokens in them 
27/ Even stranger, if you dont use a passphrase, you are still using a passphrase.

By default, the empty set passphrase of  (no characters) is used

There is NO recovery system if you lose your passphrase 
28/Summary:
Address/Public Key: Your email address (can be shared)
Private key: The password to your inbox (never share)
Wallet: Holds private keys
Seed phrase: Recovery system for private keys (never share)
Passphrase: Optional: extra password to create new wallets (never lose) 
29/ The whole discussion about wallets (software or hardware) and NFT security is a discussion about two topics:

a) security: how do you keep someone else from getting a hold of your private keys

b) resiliency: how do you ensure you do not lose control of your private keys 
30/ Security/resiliency are opposite goals.

Printing flyers with your private keys is very resilient but your NFTs will be gone.

You can easily solve security by destroying your private keys. But then you cant access your NFTs either.

The art is balancing these two goals 
31/ To summarize the security failure cases:

If someone gets a hold of:

your private keys

OR

seed phrase AND passphrase (if you used a passphrase)

32/ To summarize the resiliency failure cases:

If you lose your private keys AND seed phrase AND passphrase (if you used one)

33/ With the basics out of the way, lets go to the main event, wallets

software wallet = a software wallet on a general purpose device (computer or mobile phone)

hardware wallet = a software wallet on a dedicated hardware device (Trezor or Ledger) 
34/ I am now going to say the word: metamask

This will summon the phishing bots below these tweets. These are all fake, their goal is your seed phrase and they should be always blocked and reported

General rule: enter your private key or seed phrase at this link is a SCAM 
35/ In order to interact with web 3.0 dapps like Uniswap or Opensea, you need a browser extension that interacts with them.

The most popular is @MetaMask, but there are others.

Metamask has a mobile app that is a pure software wallet 
36/ Metamask also has a browser extension that can either:

a) operate as a pure software wallet

or

b) provide the browser interface for hardware wallets to interact with dapps 
37/ The two most popular hardware wallets are @Trezor and @Ledger. They are both good for security but have different strengths and weaknesses.

@Trezor for ETH NFT has the best browser integration. @Ledger tends to crash quite a bit, drive people crazy 
38/ However @Trezor does not yet support polygon or Tezos. For those you need @Ledger

They came from BTC era so their documentation on how to use with NFTs still sucks and they should invest a person-month each into doing an A+ job on tis 
39/ My summary recommendations are the following:

Phase I: You have less than $500 to $1,000 to invest in NFTs *in the foreseeable* future. This is the only case to use a software wallet. Metamask is fine on both computers and mobile. 
40/ Phase II: You are going to invest more than $1,000 in NFTs, set up a proper hardware wallet from Day 1.

Trezor and Ledger are both fine, but my detailed setup recommendation is below. 
41/ Phase III: You have more than $1M to $3M of NFTs or you are working in an institutional context or you have irreplaceable NFTs.

You should set up a @gnosisSafe multi-signature wallet. 
42/ Software Wallet: Only if you are investing small amounts in NFTs (<$1,000).

Software wallets are not long-term safe. They simply store your private key on your phone or computer.

If your computer is compromised by a virus, your private keys will be stolen. 
43/ When you are setting up the wallet, you will be given your seed phrase.

You need to write this down carefully on a piece of paper. This allows you to recreate your wallet

You should never ever ever type your seed phrase into a computer or photocopy it. 
44/ Metamask will have you create a password.

That password is the password that Metamask uses to give you access to Metamask.

This is NOT your passphrase.

It is specific only to Metamask on the specific computer you have installed Metamask. 
45/ You will need your seed phrase if your computer dies, if Metamask gets corrupted, if you lose your computer, if you forget your Metamask password.

The seed phase is your backup! Ideally, your seed phrase is not in your house, but somewhere else. 
46/ Some people use a steel object to store their seed phrase to be more fire resistant.

This is fine, but overkill if you are on Metamask.

A hardware wallet is more important. 
47/ Phase II: Hardware Wallet

The most expensive hardware wallets are ~0.06ETH (~$200).

If you are investing ANY significant amount in NFTs or expect any significant price appreciation in your NFTs, you must use a hardware wallet. 
48/ You: Which one?
6529: Well, any is fine
You: Yes, but which one?
6529: Fine, if you are working primarily in ETH NFTs, buy the Trezor Model T.

Why? It works better on ETH NFTs than the Ledgers and unlike the Model One, it currently supports 1559 and SSSS (see below). 
49/ OK, how are we going to set this up? 6529 is going to push you do it correctly from Day 1 and use the full panoply of tools available to you. Why? Because if you do, your setup for $5K in NFTs is also a good setup even for $1M in NFTs and you dont have to change later 
50/ Changing default wallets is a huge pain in the ass and 6529 has not enjoyed it at all. I have done both transitions, from software wallet to hardware wallet and from hardware wallet to Gnosis.

It sucks. 
51/ You have pay gas to move each individual NFTs.

The second move I did cost me $40K-$50K in gas in total across almost 1,000 NFTs and I have other NFTs where it is not worth it move them. 
52/ Also, it is terrifying.

When I moved the Tulip and Sunshine, all I was thinking was do not fumble this cultural grail and send it to the wrong address 
 
53/ This is why I am going push all of you to invest a couple of hours to do the most correct setup possible at the beginning.

For most of you, this type of setup will cover you for a very long time.

The whales are a different story. 
54/ My recommended setup for setting up a Trezor for a civilian is the following:

a) Install Trezor Suite
b) Set up the Trezor
c) Apply a PIN to the device
d) Use the Shamirs Secret Sharing Scheme to split your seed phrase 2 of 3
e) add an easy-for-you-to-remember passphrase 
55/ I know that:
a) using Shamir's Secret Sharing Scheme (SSSS)
b) using a passphrase

Are considered advanced and I am OK if you do not do it.

Also, only the Model T supports SSSS 
56/ Lets take it one step at a time.

Step 1: Buy a Trezor directly from the Trezor web site

Step 2: Follow the softwares instructions for installing the Trezor Suite Software and getting the device set up 
57/ Step 3: Select a PIN.

This PIN is the equivalent of the password on Metamask. It unlocks the Trezor device so you can use it. You must do it.

Go for at least 8 digits. 
58/ Step 4: Split your seed phrase through Shamirs Secret Sharing Scheme (it is a built in option in Trezor Suite).

What is this?

One nave security measure is to divide your seed phrase in half or in thirds so nobody can find it all in one place 
59/ This weakens its security however.

If you divide a 12 word seed phrase into two and someone finds 1 part, it is computationally feasible to crack 6 words. (It is not computationally feasible to crack 12 or 18 or 24 words). 
60/ When you select SSSS as an option, and you select 2 out of 3, the software will create 3 lists of 20 words. You will need any 2 of out 3 to recreate your wallet.

You can then put these 3 lists in three different places (safety deposit box, your in-laws house, whatever). 
61/ This means your system is robust to your house + 1 other place burning down.

It is also robust to any one of the seed phrases being exposed.

You need at least two to replicate a wallet. 
62/ A sophisticated argument against SSSS is that multi-sig is better for multiple people recovering a key.

I agree with this. SSSS is better for protecting one key for one person and you can use it in combination with multi-sig 
63/ You apply a passphrase. The passphrase should be something you and/or your family can easily remember.

The hardcore recommendation is do not write down the passphrase but if solo you should consider writing it down somewhere else bc you might forget it 
64/ I would have a minor amount of ETH in your wallet without a passphrase aka passphrase 

This is the decoy wallet, something to be discussed later.

Then your main assets go in the wallet with the passphrase 
65/ VERY IMPORTANT
You need to test that you recorded your seed phrase correctly before you store it.

In other words, your order of operations is:
a) set up the trezor, with SSSS 2 out of 3 and a passphrase and non passphrase wallet 
66/
b) send some small amount to ETH to both wallets
c) wipe your Trezor
d) set up again using first 2 out of 3 seed phrases. See that your ETH is there in both wallets
e) wipe your Trezor again
f) repeat the recovery with the last 2 seed phrases 
67/ If you have recovered the wallet with both ways, you are cleared for take-off.

Go stash away your seed phrases in different secure locations and, probably your passphrase, in a 4th location (or stash the passphrase in the brain of various other people) 
68/ You now go back to Metamask and Import Hardware wallet to connect your hardware wallet to Metamask.

Now you can use Metamask, using your hardware wallet. 
69/ If you have NFTs, you have to transfer them to this new wallet. The easiest way is the transfer function on OpenSea.

You should transfer 1 to the new wallet and then transfer it back to make sure you do control your address. Only then should you transfer the rest. 
70/ You should NOT just migrate your existing wallet to your Trezor. Your keys might have already been compromised in Metamask.

You must make a new wallet and transfer the NFTs 
71/ Your wallet has multiple ETH addresses.

You should use one as the vault for important NFTs & do not transact out of that wallet. You can use another address on ur same hardware wallet for doing things like minting the new unaudited contract for the Slimy Snail collection 
72/ That way, if the contract is malicious, you dont risk your important NFTs.

You can use a mobile wallet for fun/small purchases like this too, at the cost of the extra gas to send them to the vault wallet 
73/ All of the following are reasonable:

a) 1 hardware wallet with 2 ETH addresses, one vault, one for interactions
b) 2 hw, the vault one in a safe place, the other one with you for interactions
c) Either of the above, plus a mobile software wallet for emergency purchases 
74/ Now, what is not protected by the above?
a) you give someone your seed phrase
b) you click on a malicious link on your address with your valuable NFTs

So, dont do that. 
75/ Now time to go to the more complex stage for the and their collections.

This is the highest level of security you can have today but it comes with real costs in inconvenience

The major additional concern of a  is a wrench attack 
76/ What is a wrench attack?

77/ The theoretical defense against the wrench attack was the decoy wallet.

Open your wallet without a passphrase, show 10ETH, send it to the attacker, wish them a nice day.

They dont realize that with a passphrase, you have 1000ETH.

This does not work with well-known NFTs 
78/ So if someone wants to attack me for summer.jpg, they arent going to get fooled by decoy wallet.
For this level of sophistication, you need to move to @gnosisSafe. 
79/ Gnosis is a smart contract masquerading as a wallet. In other words, it has an address that can be treated as a public address, but it is really its own smart contract on the ETH blockchain and it is visibly so 
80/ Gnosis has been used as a vault/treasury by many defi protocols and increasingly for NFT vaults. The important feature for these purposes is that you can create whatever signing protocols you want to authorize a transaction.

For example 2 out of 3 or 2 of 4 or 3 of 5 etc 
81/ In the high-end setup, each of the signers can be anything  a software wallet or a hardware wallet.

The most hardened approach would be that each signer is a distributed offline SSSS hardware wallet setup 
82/ So opensea.io/6529Museum is now a Gnosis multi-signature wallet. You can check online and see that it is a smart contract, not an address.

https://opensea.io/6529Museum
83/ It has multiple signing keys, each of which is broken into its component parts and distributed across dozens of people and institutions in multiple continents.

None of the keys are hot, none of the keys are on us. Even I dont even know where all the components are. 
84/ Without getting into further detail, I think trying to wrench attack anyone in the 6529 team would likely result in:
a) not getting the keys because it would take days and institutions and
b) you getting arrested

Also, who is going to believe I sold you the Tulip?  
85/ So how does 6529 operate now? My day-to-day actions are a hardware wallet setup.

Then NFTs are sent to the Gnosis 6529 Museum Vault.

It costs 2 x gas but that is the price to pay to operate at this scale. 
86/ This has a cost of course which is the Museum is no longer flexible. The process of moving something out of the Museum to use it to mint or stake is now a multi-day, multi-person process which is really only worth it if there is something important to do. 
87/ So this really only makes sense for very valuable and publicly visible collections to both:

a) use a multi-sig wallet and
b) keep everything distributed and not accessible 
88/ There is another potential use of a multi-sig which is being an idiot insurance.

Here you can make a 2 out of 3 setup, give a trusted friend 1 key and dont do anything unless they sign also. 
89/ That way if you have a momentary FOMO moment and start trying to connect to some site someone pitched you on Discord, you might have a 2nd voice of reason that prevents disaster.

@argentHQ, in a different way, tries to provide something like this 
90/ There is one more great use of Gnosis and it is for collective holdings.

A group of friends or an institution (e.g. company, fund, etc) or a DAO hold some NFTs. 
91/ Nobody should have sole responsibility or authority to hold those NFTs, regardless of value.

A Gnosis multi-sig, possibly with the keys more accessible for convenience, is a great solution for this situation. 
92/ So let me summarize the key steps so far:
a) <$1,000  software wallet
b) everyone else  hardware wallet
c) [only in most cases]  gnosis multi-sig, with offline key distribution
d) friends/groups/institutions  gnosis multi-sig, offline or online keys 
93/ If you are distributing SSSS seed phrase shards, pins, hw wallets, passphrases and so on, you need to think carefully who could get quorum on your wallet or multi-sig and who you trust.

This is very individual, I can't help, just think about it very very carefully 
94/ One of the nice thing about distributing SSSS off-site versus seed phrases is that the shards are individually useless.

Whereas a seed phrase without a passphrase is the keys to the kingdom 
95/ One more thing to consider. I regret to inform you that one day we are all going to ngmi and we will go 6 feet under.

If you have NFTs of financial and emotional value, you should think through how the beneficiaries of your will, will receive those NFTs. 
96/ There have been many horror stories from BTC era on of huge fortunes dying with the key holder

Every situation varies, but if you think through the possibilities with seed phrases (SSSS) and/or multi-sig wallets, you can construct I believe logical estate planning approaches 
97/ What is great about all the above? They are all non-custodial. There will be custodial solutions soon from the major players and those are fine too. 
98/ But I doubt they are much more secure in practice (the risk of social engineering or a wrench attack just moves to the authorization stage between you and the custodian) and you are no longer digitally self-sovereign.

Or, at least, you are less so. 
99/ This might seem like a lot to absorb, or maybe even difficult. But the investment in time to get up to speed is really not that high.

It is a 1-time cost and once you have done it and you on the other side, it is quite straightforward. 
100/ I consider crypto competency a core life skill like 'driving a car' or 'understanding how budgets work'. Each of those things takes hundreds of hours to learn. This will be a few hours for most people. But even if it is 10 or 20 or 40, why not? 
101/ Learning these skills puts you a step ahead for the Web 3.0 economy and lets you reduce dramatically the risk of some type of disaster with your NFTS and crypto.

So get over here with the cool crypto kids and learn this stuff 
102/ That is all for this thread. I hope it is helpful. 

If you came here for the first time for this thread and want to learn more about NFTs and the Open Metaverse, go here and here:



103/ Update: The feed says that Model T works on Polygon and it was the uncorrected 1559 issue on Model One that was the problem.

I have not checked, but you can check this out. 
104/ @gnosisSafe display of NFTs is immature. I do not think it properly handles punks or 1155 yet. But you can use OpenSea for now


105/ Key Swapping

Another advantage of the multi-sig wallets is that you can swap out the keys.

So if later a key gets compromised or you decide to use a different hardware wallet or different setup, you can swap keys in and out 
106/ Dedicated Laptop

You may consider a dedicated laptop (Mac or Linux) for interacting with vault and/or high value NFTs.

It is <0.5 ETH

I don't think it is necessarily needed for day to day transactions. 
107/ Risk v Convenience

Vault: Losses that would be devastating to you (economically or emotionally)

Day to Day (not in vault): Amounts that might be annoying but you will get over it in a week

The absolute value will vary by person 


1/ You might be wondering where the Gradients went?

The short answer is "I had an idea" then "I went to NYC" and then "life got in the way"

So, yesterday I was able to organize the idea so we can move forward again. 
2/ One Big Theme around here is we do experiments.

Lots and lots of experiments because another Big Theme is that we are 0.01% of the way there in figuring out how to best socially organize with NFTs.

So I want to try Many Ideas to see if any of them are Good Ideas. 
3/ One experiment that I enjoyed was making the gm and 6529 galleries with the help of @mintfaced and @6529er (and the OG @ldf_gm inspiration)

If you have not seen, check them out
6529: oncyber.io/6529v1
gm:

6529 gm
Immerse yourself in 6529's 6529 gm. Featuring NFTs from ONDI, RUBENBIGQ, NFT Time - gm, good_mornings, roguespectre, AakankshaPanwar, ashikjoh and many more
https://oncyber.io/6529gm

6529 Fam Gallery
Immerse yourself in 6529's 6529 Fam Gallery. Featuring NFTs from Madkrtek, xali, Abhishekcj, atlasstrategic, GSujan, Vocks, TonySellen and many more
https://oncyber.io/6529v1
4/ In these experiments, many people made memes and the three of us curated them.

I have been trying to figure out how to do the reverse and I have an idea I'd like to try.

Every holder of a Gradient can display an NFT of their choice here:


6529Gradients
Immerse yourself in 6529's 6529Gradients. Featuring NFTs from, 6529 Gradient, HackataoQK, 3seater, Shvembldr, 6529Collections and many more
https://oncyber.io/6529gradients
5/ You will see in the gallery Gradient 0, 50 and 100 which are currently in the 6529 Museum.

BUT

 100ish empty wall positions in this galley
Almost 100 other gradients

so this happened one day and 

6/ Specifically, what I would like to try is that each Gradient holder can curate 1 NFT into this gallery.

@mintfaced can figure out the logistics so get in touch with him. 

The idea is to reverse the 6529 gallery concept, so that others curate, not us. 
7/ I have not figured out how you can do this if you would like to stay 100% anon because we somehow have to give you an @oncyber_io curation link.

If someone can think of an idea, please post it here.

Otherwise you have to at least ping us with a pseudo account 
8/ Disclaimers:
a) Do you get a governance token? no
b) Do you get economics? no
c) Can we veto obnoxious NFTs? yes
d) Do we commit to @oncyber_io not changing their business model? no
e) Can we end the experiment at any time? yes

It is just an experiment to see what happens 
9/ On this fun news, I am sending two more Gradients to auction at the usual starting price of 0.6529ETH

#93

11/ I might pick up the pace of the auctions a bit now, but, as always, things might change based solely on my mood and schedule \_()_/

Have fun!!!

Current Gradients holders, please contact @mintfaced if you would like to participate 


1/ Perhaps alone, I continue my Art Blocks Curated quest 

Today, Asemica by @emailyedelman, @andrewbadr, and @dimaofman


https://beta.cent.co/artblocks/+jz6qw5
2/ Three very interesting pieces for the 6529 Museum.

Full set of 6529 Museum pieces below

3/ #902

rarity.guide/project/206/902

4/ #278

rarity.guide/project/206/278

3/ #610
rarity.guide/project/206/610

#4/ 623
rarity.guide/project/206/623

5/ #576

rarity.guide/project/206/576

6/ #540
rarity.guide/project/206/540

7/ 828
rarity.guide/project/206/828

8/ 474
rarity.guide/project/206/474
I think possibly my favorite, but not sure yet. I like them all.

9/ I think these are cool. I think @artblocks_io is cool. But that is just me. \_()_/

32/ On a Pathway to Decentralization


33/ On gm NYC


34/ On Securing Your NFTs (only 102 tweets )



35/ On NFT Photography 1/1s


36/ On Web 1, Web 2, Web 3 and choices

I did a guest thread over on @artnet on this topic. The thread is here


37/ On NFT Rights Delegation



Four additions from Edifice by @bendotk that will join their generative brethren in the 6529 Museum (#52, #432, #605, #767)

#432 is so so interesting.

Been a bit of long day, so tagging in @bonafidehan for the more detailed analysis


OK with now with numbers for everyone's convenience



1/ A quick recap of yesterday's threads to make sure we are all on the same page.

The value of decentralized systems is that they are decentralized and global and open to all.

This is the goal, but there must be pathways to that goal. 
2/ The pathway to that goal is through adoption.

I am not interested in crypto / decentralized systems being a niche area for hardcore OGs only. I am interested in broad adoption.

Broad adoption by definition requires "regular" people in large countries to adopt it 
3/ Regular people (and in fact pretty much everyone) in order to spend serious time/effort/money in an open system need to:
a) have easy access to their value back in fiat
b) not have burdensome obligations
c) not have any risk of jail, fines, breaking the law 
4/ Without these things in place, we will all end up on a centralized system because practically nobody is going to risk jail time to make an oncyber gallery.

These laws are set at the nation-state level and have to be lobbied for at the nation-state level. 
5/ My thesis is that the most important nation-state to get right is the United States because:
a) it is large,
b) it is the largest crypto market today and
c) other countries tend to follow it as the leader in tech. 
6/ Given that the USA has not quite been favorable to crypto (mixed bag imho), this is my pitch to the USA on why it is in its interests to be pro-crypto.


7/ My view is that the next best in the European Union. This is my pitch to the EU.

The reason for "next best" is not because I like cowboys more than waffles but because I think EU tends to move more slowly on these things.

Happy to be wrong.


8/ Enthusiasm and good values are not enough.

We lost the battle for cyberspace 25 years ago because of too many grand thoughts and not enough work on the ground. I don't want that to happen here



9/ If I am wrong and it turns out that India or Nigeria or Brazil or El Salvador or Switzerland or Egypt lead the charge into crypto and other countries like the USA follow their lead, that is great!

Happy for that outcome.

But I don't think it is the most likely outcome. 
10/ I am not willing to give up the fight to get sensible policy out of Washington.

Despite some type of entrenched skepticism of crypto, it is still, in my opinion, the best bet.

But it is non-exclusive. Everyone can try in their country of choice

LFG! 
11/ One thing to keep in mind is that countries FOMO in a predictable manner. Right now:

US and China FOMO each other
EU/UK FOMO the US and China
India FOMOs China and US

Pretty much everyone else FOMOs the above, but not the reverse. USA is not going to FOMO Egypt on tech. 
12/ But what about Switzerland, etc? They play in their own separate league

Switzerland, Luxembourg, Singapore, Dubai FOMO each other
Slightly below: Estonia, Malta, Caymans, Bahamas, Cyprus, etc

But the big countries don't FOMO these countries 
13/ In fact, with these financial/tax hubs, it kindof works the other way.

If they get too far ahead of the big countries in terms of permissiveness, the big countries reel them in and have many tools to do so.

So we have to win in the big leagues 

1/ On Not Failing Decentralization A Second Time

[record scratch]

We've been here before. In 1996. We were going to build a digital world, not tied to nation-states.

John Barlow of the EFF wrote the Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace

I will tweet it in full 
2/ "Governments of the Industrial World, you weary giants of flesh and steel, I come from Cyberspace, the new home of Mind. On behalf of the future, I ask you of the past to leave us alone. You are not welcome among us. You have no sovereignty where we gather." 
3/ "We have no elected government, nor are we likely to have one, so I address you with no greater authority than that with which liberty itself always speaks. I declare the global social space we are building to be naturally independent of the tyrannies you seek to impose on us" 
4/ "You have no moral right to rule us nor do you possess any methods of enforcement we have true reason to fear.

Governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed. You have neither solicited nor received ours. We did not invite you." 
5/ "You do not know us, nor do you know our world. Cyberspace does not lie within your borders. Do not think that you can build it, as though it were a public construction project. You cannot. It is an act of nature and it grows itself through our collective actions." 
6/ "You have not engaged in our great and gathering conversation, nor did you create the wealth of our marketplaces. You do not know our culture, our ethics, or the unwritten codes that already provide our society more order than could be obtained by any of your impositions." 
7/ "You claim there are problems among us that you need to solve. You use this claim as an excuse to invade our precincts. Many of these problems don't exist. Where there are real conflicts, where there are wrongs, we will identify them and address them by our means." 
8/ "We are forming our own Social Contract. This governance will arise according to the conditions of our world, not yours. Our world is different." 
9/ "Cyberspace consists of transactions, relationships, and thought itself, arrayed like a standing wave in the web of our communications. Ours is a world that is both everywhere and nowhere, but it is not where bodies live." 
10/ "We are creating a world that all may enter without privilege or prejudice accorded by race, economic power, military force, or station of birth." 
11/ "We are creating a world where anyone, anywhere may express his or her beliefs, no matter how singular, without fear of being coerced into silence or conformity." 
12/ "Your legal concepts of property, expression, identity, movement, and context do not apply to us. They are all based on matter, and there is no matter here." 
13/ "Our identities have no bodies, so, unlike you, we cannot obtain order by physical coercion. We believe that from ethics, enlightened self-interest, and the commonweal, our governance will emerge. Our identities may be distributed across many of your jurisdictions." 
14/ "The only law that all our constituent cultures would generally recognize is the Golden Rule. We hope we will be able to build our particular solutions on that basis. But we cannot accept the solutions you are attempting to impose." 
15/ "In the United States, you have today created a law, the Telecommunications Reform Act, which repudiates your own Constitution and insults the dreams of Jefferson, Washington, Mill, Madison, DeToqueville, and Brandeis. These dreams must now be born anew in us." 
16/ "You are terrified of your own children, since they are natives in a world where you will always be immigrants. Because you fear them, you entrust your bureaucracies with the parental responsibilities you are too cowardly to confront yourselves." 
17/ "In our world, all the sentiments and expressions of humanity, from the debasing to the angelic, are parts of a seamless whole, the global conversation of bits. We cannot separate the air that chokes from the air upon which wings beat." 
18/ "In China, Germany, France, Russia, Singapore, Italy and the United States, you are trying to ward off the virus of liberty by erecting guard posts at the frontiers of Cyberspace." 
19/ "These may keep out the contagion for a small time, but they will not work in a world that will soon be blanketed in bit-bearing media." 
20/ "Your increasingly obsolete information industries would perpetuate themselves by proposing laws, in America and elsewhere, that claim to own speech itself throughout the world." 
21/ "These laws would declare ideas to be another industrial product, no more noble than pig iron. In our world, whatever the human mind may create can be reproduced and distributed infinitely at no cost." 
22/ " The global conveyance of thought no longer requires your factories to accomplish. These increasingly hostile and colonial measures place us in the same position as those previous lovers of freedom" 
23/ "and self-determination who had to reject the authorities of distant, uninformed powers. We must declare our virtual selves immune to your sovereignty, even as we continue to consent to your rule over our bodies." 
24/ " We will spread ourselves across the Planet so that no one can arrest our thoughts.

We will create a civilization of the Mind in Cyberspace. May it be more humane and fair than the world your governments have made before.

Davos, Switzerland
February 8, 1996" 
25/ Do these sentiments sound familiar?
Have we heard this in crypto?
Do my OG BTC friends believe that BTC will lead mathematically to world peace?
Are people replying to me today and calling me a nationalist (of all things)?
Will the system naturally fold to crypto? 
26/ The Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace was a beautiful piece of writing and expressed beautiful sentiments.

But it turned out to be 100% wrong in practice 
27/ What was turns out to be the mistake was that we don't live in cyberspace, we live in meatspace.

And in meatspace, men with guns can enforce laws. They can arrest you, put you in a box.

They can place black boxes in your server rooms 
28/ And this is what has happened in practice. Digital darkness has descended fully over China and shadows are coming across the rest of the world.

Russia is next and the USA/EU instead of fighting for digital freedom, want control themselves 
30/ And everyone bends the knee because centralized corporations have to.

Your favorite online service / defender of freedom, follows the relevant national security orders of china, russia and turkey or they get shut down, either at the human or ISP level 
31/ It would be great if we live in world peace, without nationalism, without borders, all holding hands.

Maybe that is achievable, maybe it is not, but that is certainly not today's landscape

Today's problem is electing politicians in your jurisdiction that respect your views 
32/ Today's problem is educating our fellow countrymen, who also vote, that perhaps we should not sleepwalk into a centralized dystopia.

Today's problem is running and supporting candidates in meatspace that understand the potential of Web 3.0

And helping them make their case 
33/ The difference between good policy and bad policy could be decades of suffering. Nothing is inevitable in this world.

The "War on Drugs" was politically popular in the 1980s and we are still paying for this pandering today in the 2020s. 
34/ So yes, I believe we have to engage with nation-states and, in particular, with democracies.

We should explain why it is in their interests to trust their citizens a bit, to support innovation, to grow their economies. 
35/ The alternative is not that they do not engage with us. They will engage with us anyway, but the people who will be explaining to them web 3.0 will be Citibank and JP Morgan Chase.

Is that who you would like to advocate for you? 
36/ So let's try to not lose a second time. This time, if we play our cards right, we can maybe do it.

LFG! 


1/ The European Union could be the natural home of crypto.

It won't be, I believe.

But it should and could be. It would be the best jujitsu move it could do.

2/ A few hours ago, I made the case that the natural home for crypto to take roots and flourish is the United States.

The USA has the right environment to support crypto and, in fact, the largest crypto market in the world.

Let's see the case for the EU



3/ Let's start with some simple background items

Economy the size of the United States
Constitutional democracies with support for human rights
Strong history in financial services
Vast cultural and artistic heritage
Amazing brands
Acceptable tech capacity 
4/ The EU also one advantage that the United States does not have.

There is no Howey Test in the EU.

There are a variety of existing and future regulations to look out for, but nothing as automatic and broad reaching as the Howey Test to classify crypto projects as securities 
5/ The EU also has a completely different strategic position than the United States relative to crypto.

The EU has completely missed the web era. The largest tech company in Europe is still, somehow, SAP.

There are no major EU platforms 
6/ This bothers the EU a lot (that they have no strategic digital autonomy in the FAANG era) and they proceed to get very concerned & make ineffectual moves

Try to launch national champions in global networked businesses

REGULATE with ideas like GDPR which helps incumbents 
7/ You cannot beat Facebook and Twitter in 2021 by launching a sub-scale derivative competitor.

You beat them by moving immediately to the next generation of tech (the decentralized generation).

6529 has some access in the EU & has been yelling about this for nearly a decade 
8/ Unfortunately, so far, with the exception of a literal handful of politicians across the whole EU, none of them see the opportunity.

There is no strategic vision for technology right now in the EU 
9/ The second lens that the EU could use to look at crypto with is human rights.

The EU is more concerned about topics like privacy than the United States is.

But nobody has made the leap that crypto can provide more human rights, not fewer 
10/ The third lens for the EU. The ECB does not, indirectly, run the world's payment rails. If the USA deep national security state is afraid of losing control, what is the EU afraid of?

The EU is subordinate to the USA already on these matters. 
11/ The funniest thing about FATCA is not that the EU complied with it, it is that it got nothing equivalent in return.

If the issue was "let's all work together on money laundering", the Delaware would start reporting back to, say, Spain.

 at that thought 
12/ So, in summary, the advantages for the EU are:
Leapfrog into a new generation of technology
Loosen FAANG grip in EU
Support its commitment to human rights

So, this sounds great, is it going to happen? 
13/ So far, I regret to inform you that I believe it is not.

The EU is reverting to form, where it believes the answer is: a) the state, and b) regulation and c) centralized control

It will be a mental leap too far 
14/ What I believe is going to actually happen with crypto is that the United States will eventually do the right thing.

The industry will flourish in the United States and then, in about a decade, the EC will be convening panels to understand why EU is behind in Web 3.0 economy 
15/ I hope I am wrong. The EU has suffered significantly by its inability to stand up a tech industry.

I think the EU is going to continue to lose relative technological and geopolitical power as it continues to fail to grasp the implications of exponential technologies. 
16/ I do not think that is good for the world.

An EU that is falling behind economically, that cannot compete technologically is a disaster waiting to happen.

Europe has dragged the world into war many times. It is better for it to be strong and prosperous 
17/ What do you mean the EU is falling behind?

Here is US vs EU GDP per capita in nominal terms.

In other words, without adjustors for purchasing power parity changes, in other words without getting boosted by EU deflation

In other words the euros you can spend abroad.

18/ The EU never really recovered from the 2008 financial crisis.

The EU has effectively missed the wealth generation of the technology industry.

And given how technology builds on prior technology, unless something changes, will fall further behind 
19/ I live in Europe. There is plenty of patting themselves on the back about things that are better than the USA.

Or how the USA has problems and its best days are behind it.

And, sure, some things are better in EU & there are plenty of problems in the United States. 
20/ But there is no self-reflection about why the EU is falling progressively behind the USA economically.

In fact, there is almost no coverage of this topic.

I have never seen the chart above (from the World Bank) in the European media. 
21/ So I will close here. I will keep pushing the EU to be more ambitious, but I have my reservations.

Which is why, with all its flaws, we cannot abandon the fight for Washington DC to the centralized system lobbyist in the hope that someone else will save us 

1/ On America and crypto

There is no more natural home for crypto than the United States of America.

There is no more natural strategic weapon for the United States of America than crypto.

The USA has never gone wrong betting on freedom and things are no different this time.

2/ First, let's knock out the major alternatives:

China: Non-convertible currency, top-down 'social credit' system of integrated control
Russia: Would like to be China
EU: Blissfully unaware that technology matters
India: @balajis fighting hard but tough battle 
3/ Now, let's knock out the rest

Switzerland: Zug is cool, but ant-sized
Singapore: Same
Dubai/UAE: Same
UK: Theoretically interesting, but busy running out of crisps or whatever these days
Nigeria: Hates it
Brazil: Unaware of crypto's existence
The rest: Come on 
4/ The USA is, on the other hand, is swole
Largest economy
Strongest military
Largest tech industry
Largest financial industry
Largest media industry
Deepest capital markets
Convertible reserve currency
Unending consumer market

5/ The USA has something else too.

It has a fundamental belief in freedom from the state and a healthy distrust of the infallibility of the state

Boston Tea Party
Constitution
Bill of Rights
Decentralized system of governance 
6/ Has the USA deviated from these ideals? Sure, many times. It is the worst state in terms of freedom, EXCEPT for all the others.

Take two examples (one for each political persuasion), the First and Second Amendment.

There is nothing like this in any major power. 
7/ The First Amendment is a unique, extraordinary devolution of rights to the citizens

There are very few countries where you can "say what you want on practically any topic" without fear of arrest

& what countries pay a price like the USA does in service of 2nd Amendment? 
8/ The system of governance is also quite decentralized.

The USA is a federation, something not fully understood outside the USA, with a massive number of states' rights

And, within states, there is further decentralization like local schooling. 
9/ In other words, the United States has all the ingredients to lead the web 3.0 revolution:

Financial and technological muscle
World class creative industries
A belief that its people shouldn't be micro-managed by a centralized set of governmental employees in the capital 
10/ So what is going wrong? I mean the USA is the center of global crypto, but it is a grind.

The relationship between crypto and Washington DC is all tension.

The positioning is all defensive.

"What are all the things that can go wrong and how can we control them" 
11/ I think the first issue is the generally unexamined growth of AML/KYC measures.

AML/KYC is an important topic but it is just a series of regulations, nothing more.

They should be subject to cost-benefit analysis and subordinate to constitutional rights. 
12/ The second issue, similar in nature, is the "securities law-ization" of literally everything.

@matt_levine discusses this in a public markets context, that all types of things are now indirectly regulated as securities laws violations even if they may not be directly illegal 
13/ The same thing is happening in private markets.

The current regime is woefully inadequate for web 3.0 business models.

If you try to return value to users, you risk breaking the law. The only safe choice legally is to keep all the value to yourself.

Odd. 
14/ The net effect of the Howey Test in a web 3.0 context is to lock in the web 2.0 firms like Facebook.

The way to reduce Facebook's power is not to call Mark up to yell at him in Congress.

It is to let people build economically incented community-based alternatives to FB 
15/ The third issue is the deep national security state believes it has organized the world nicely right now.

In other words, the view is that the USD rails/correspondent banking around the world are a point of serious strategic control. 
16/ This is a complex issue because they are not wrong.

The USA currently might be at its point of maximum control of the infrastructure of the global financial system.

The question is "is this sustainable?" or will progressively others (see: China) build their own rails 
17/ The fourth issue is that the communication from crypto field is incoherent and, sometimes, nuts.

From "we will replace the dollar" to "all crypto is going to go offshore" to "here are 439 detailed regulatory recommendations", it is impossible to find fundamental principles 
18/ My view is that progressive consolidation of our digital lives in a handful of firms in Silicon Valley is deeply unAmerican.

We did not fight for centuries to increase the scope of our freedom, to hand it all back to some new industrial conglomerates. 
20/ On the geopolitical front, Washington has to think offensively, not defensively and be more bold.

China can and will replicate rails of control.

China cannot function in a web 3.0 model in its current system.

The analogy I think about is the internet in the 1990s 
21/ The internet pressured a very centralized media industry in the United States that 'manufactured consent' in some type of unofficial, subconscious collusion with the political establishment.

One defensive view would be to 'shut it down' to maintain control. 
22/ The much better offensive approach was to encourage the development of the internet, at home and internationally, and open the opportunities and challenges of the internet globally.

My view is very simple: the USA can handle open systems, its strategic competitors can't. 
23/ My view is the literally anti-Peter Thiel view.

His view was that China was encouraging BTC to reduce USD dominance. It was the most backwards thing I have heard in years.

The USD can handle BTC just fine. A closed system like the yuan cannot. 
24/ A different way to put it - I am much more optimistic than our political establishment.

I believe the USA can lead the way to greater freedom, innovation and decentralization.

And that will help the United States and the world. 
25/ If the USA leads on this topic, the EU will follow.

If the USA and the EU choose the path of freedom, we start to build systems that citizens of more closed systems to aspire to.

This, to me, is the way. 
26/ It is a running joke to look at the terms of service of crypto services and see that they are not available to residents of "North Korea, Cuba, Yemen, Iran and the state of New York" (due to the Bitlicense requirements).

Ha ha ha, but actually a total embarrassment 
27/ New York is the financial & creative capital of the United States. Its residents are not idiots.

The idea that New York should be the state of maximum regulation of crypto globally is wild.

We lost this battle in '14 & how much opportunity has been lost since then??? 
28/ So it is time to stop thinking defensively and start thinking about opportunity, about offense, about building the next generation of internet enabled organizations.

The 1990 to 2020 cycle has run its course.

The next cycle will be decentralized. 
29/ Time for America to start playing to win again, not playing not to lose

(And Europe too, though that will be harder and will be a thread of its own)

30/ I have been in crypto long enough, in early maxi days, to know what yelling is incoming to me now.

Nation-states are outdated
I am an American apologist (laughable if you know me)
USA has done bad things domestically and internationally

Let's take these one at a time 
31/ "Nation-states are outdated and we are going to make a global community without them"

Nonsense!

Nation-states have men with guns that can put you in cell. Which means it is super important that in democracies we aim to pass good, not bad laws.

We have to engage 
32/ "I am an apologist for [x bad American foreign policy] or [the war on drugs] or whatever"

I can't get into details without doxxing myself but I am assuredly not a fan of American foreign policy.

Or, for example, the war of drugs that is end to end idiocy. 
33/ I am however capable of holding multiple thoughts in my head at the same time.

The "war on drugs" is a stupid idea and also it is more likely we can boot up a web 3.0 economy in the United States than in China.

If you have better ideas, i am happy to hear them 
34/ it is clear that most of you have not thought too much about FATCA.

The USA has basically imposed its own bank surveillance regime on banks globally.

The idea that the USA could go negative on crypto and that other states will fight the USA on crypto's behalf is lol 
35/ Which party in the USA should should be in favor of crypto:

Republicans are, in theory, in favor of devolved state power so they should be.

Democrats are, in theory, in favor of community vs corporate power so they should be.

In practice, though, the field is wide open 
36/ A lot of bold talk in my feed. Do this thought experiment:

If holding an NFT was illegal (risk of jail) and you couldn't ever cash out, how many of you would risk your freedom just to make decentralized art with no/limited ability for economic gain? 
37/ I am aware that crypto is hard to stop technically but it can be hurt badly socially.

Crypto has been tolerated in the West. It is legal and has access to fiat rails.

Which is why 95% of you are here.

We have to keep it that way 

1/ On Real Estate

You invest in real estate - the largest and most tangible asset class in the world.

You don't believe in any of this NFT mumbo jumbo.

What you are just buying a token? The JPG is somewhere else? What are you even buying? 
2/ I regret to inform you (or, actually, am happy to inform you) that you are just like us.

You trade in in paper-based tokens with no intrinsic value whatsoever

Your assets are way off-chain.

Your "ownership" of land, houses and apartments is a 100% made-up social convention 
3/ Wait what?

Imagine you are off to buy a house, on a nice piece of land, somewhere in the suburbs. Or a 1BR in NYC. Or a farm in the heartland. Or a ranch in Montana.

Maybe the Bitterroot Fishing Cabin (15 acres, 226ETH)


West Fork Bitterroot Fishing Cabin - Live Water - Montana Real Estate
4/ What does it mean to buy that ranch in Montana? What does that process actually entail?

Well, most likely you will "wire" money to the seller

(Some bits will change in a computer somewhere and you will transfer some social credits / claims on other people's resources) 
5/ Then what?

Then you will sign some pieces of paper.

Except, instead of signing cryptographically, you are using a very old technology, that of pen and paper.

A notary (a special signature priest) will watch you to ensure and assert that you signed correctly 
6/ Then you will take that piece of paper to the "clerk and recorder's" office in the "county" that the property is located.

(You had gone there before to confirm that the title was clean, that the seller wasn't lying to you.)

Now you are back to give them the piece of paper. 
7/ Excellent!

All has gone well and you are the owner of 15 acres of river, grass, tree and a home.

Looks nice actually. The river curves charmingly, the mountains form a pleasing V. The sellers assure you the fishing is good.

8/ There are some additional nuances, we have not covered: mineral rights, water rights, stream access, zoning, floodplains.

But you are a serious buyer, you did your diligence and all these have been dealt with.

OK, great, so what is the issue? 
9/ Well, what is the issue?

The whole thing is completely imaginary make-believe, that is the whole issue.

2 people sat in a county office 20 miles away, signed a piece of paper, someone else blessed the signature and magically the land is "owned" by someone else? 
10/ Does that deed automatically build a fence? No
Does that deed give you superpowers? No
Does that deed keep out people, animals, fish, storms or snow from your property? No
Does that deed do anything at all in the physical world where your property is located? Of course not 
11/ The relationship between that deed and that land is exactly as "off-chain" as the relationship between an NFT token and a JPG located on a centralized server somewhere.

The link between your deed and your land is only social convention, nothing more. 
12/ Owning real estate is a fairly mature concept in the West so the social convention is pretty strong and fades into the background and we forget it.

But it is all social convention that keeps a stranger out of your living room. 
13/ Real Estate Social Conventions:

a) You do not go on someone else's "private property" uninvited ("trespassing")
b) The database of record is the title registry
c) Disputes are handled in court
d) Ultimate enforcement of a) to c) is a gun and a metal cage

14/ There are stories, perhaps apocryphal, about how Native Americans signed over land to colonialists because they thought it was laughable that someone could own the plains and the mountains and the streams.

It seems hard to imagine today, but let me help you imagine it. 
15/ Imagine the vast Pacific Ocean, far out in international waters, and imagine that I assert that 1 acre of that ocean is mine.

And, I don't know, I sign a contract with @krybharat saying so and get @6529er to "notarize" it.

And I declare myself supreme ruler of that 1 acre.

16/ You would all laugh at me.

And the reason you would laugh at me is that today, as it relates to the vast oceans, we are pre-industrial.

We do not have the tech to practically enforce property rights thousand of miles from shore, so "international waters" it is 
17/ Something like that must have been the 18th and 19th centuries on the vast American frontier.

Endless mountains, forests, plains and rivers and a ragtag bunch of guys on horses riding around declaring "I am the supreme ruler of this mountain"

If you were around, you'd laugh 
18/ But we did industrialize on land and more people with guns came, and they shot people who were on "their" land.

And then as more and more people came, we become more refined.

Less shooting, more magical ceremonies at the county office, laws, judges. 
19/ Everything human is social convention, myth, memes, stories.

That you can "own" the land, the water, the minerals, the air above it, is a social convention, a meme, a myth.

The title deed, the play-acting, the notary is the play-acting of that myth. 
20/ You don't see real estate ownership as social convention because you and your grandparents and their grandparents grew up with it, it seemed normal.

And so it feels real, even thought it is just a story we all agree to believe, a game with commonly agreed rules 
21/ Soon digital ownership will feel the same way.

It already does to me, because I am 8 years in and my social convention has shifted.

It might feel that way to you.

If not you, your children

If not your kids, for sure your grandchildren 
22/ And digital ownership will work the same way, with social convention.

The token is the title deed.

What that specific token means is all social convention.

The one difference is we have less need for guns.

At least digitally, we enforce our rights with math, not bullets 
23/ If someone trespasses in my house, I might need muscles or a gun to get them out.

It would be hard for someone to digitally trespass on my tokens

Of course, they might go after the keys IRL, but that is a derivative approach.

The digital tokens themselves are quite safe 
24/ The reason tokens and NFTs and digital objects are disconcerting to people is that they get to watch the social convention be built in real-time.

And it seems fake, make-believe, like all the NFT fam has lost their minds playing some make-believe game. 
25/ And NFTs are make-believe in that sense, a social convention, a meme, a myth, a game with mutually agreed rules, where we all agree that token 78000313 represents this  below

26/ The breakthrough is to understand that everything else in society is exactly that way too.

There is a piece of paper, in a filing cabinet, in some small office in Montana, that we all agree represents the land, trees and water in this picture below.

It is weirder tbh.

27/ Inevitably, some real estate attorney will mansplain to me that "but there are **laws** specifically describing the relationship between that piece of paper and the land"

The answer to this is: "so what?" 
28/ My view is that existing laws are perfectly sufficient for tokens to represent art.

In the event that, for some reason they are not, we can make additional laws.

There was a time, for example, when we did not have e-signatures and now we do.

It is OK to learn new things. 
29/ I can see from the replies that this thread is going to disconcert a lot of people.

"but I have rights to my property"

Yes ser you do, but where did those come from?

The universe itself or because a couple of hundred years in Montana we decided a human can own a stream? 
30/ Do the stream and the mountain know that they are owned? Do they care that they are owned?

It is just a game among humans - "this is *my* stream and I can fish here and you can't"

And we are playing a cryptographic game, I can move Fidenza 313 token and you can't. 
31/ People are passionate about property rights and I am glad they are. I suspect society works better with the feeling of "ownership"

The goal of project open metaverse is to ensure you have property rights in a digital world too

That you are not a serf on someone else's land 
31/ I think it is wonderful that you can own a fishing cabin in Montana and I think it is wonderful that you can own a Fidenza.

I think it is less wonderful to be a "user" on www dot facebook dot com, there solely at the discretion of the company. 
32/ This is what we fight for fam.

That we have the same rights online, in a progressively more digital society, that we have in the physical world.

Everyone should be in favor of this - right wing and left wing alike - it is a human rights and property rights issue. 
33/ But sadly, our politicians are behind. They are not there yet.

So we need to do it ourselves for now and patronize online communities where we are sovereign OWNERS and have the right to exit and take our things with us.

Not online communities where we are "USERS" 
34/ I will wrap here.

1/ When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.

Last week Hester Peirce could not give a straight answer on if punks are a security. Her comments below 
2/ "I mean, Im gonna not weigh in on that, because I have Coy [Garrison, counsel to Commissioner Peirce] standing and looking at me and telling me that I shouldnt... 
3/ "...But I think there are a lot of  I mean, youre raising an interesting scenario. And I think this is why people need to be very careful...." 
4/ "...My advice to people is, look at your facts and circumstances, set them down on a piece of paper and then read it with the eyes of an SEC lawyer. And make sure that you get someone to think about getting the advice that you need before you walk down the road." 
5/ I am probably the most conservative person on NFT twitter on the topic of "ooh, that looks like a security, people should be careful" but if we get into the mode that CP (that have no rights to anything) are a security, the SEC has truly lost the plot 
6/ The trick/trap here is that everything should be looked at through "the eyes of an SEC lawyer"

Well, that is fine, but there are other laws and rights in the land as well, including constitutional ones, including the 1st Amendment 
7/ If CPs are a security, then Warhols, rookie baseball cards and your university memorabilia are also a security. Give me a break.

We are not giving up free speech for utterly stretched interpretations of the Howey Test 
8/ We need to start prepping the 1st Amendment defense of core NFTs now.

We might have to fight for it, and I am here for that fight. 
9/ This is from this @CoinDesk article


Some NFTs Are Probably Illegal. Does the SEC Care?
Commissioner Hester Peirce has words of advice for NFT makers and platforms.


1/ What is an NFT?

Wait, what? Isn't this easy?

I am not so sure.

Let's take a look! 
2/ Let's start with the definition:

[Non-Fungible] [Token]

This is a branding disaster since nobody had ever used the word non-fungible before NFTs.

But I think we are stuck with it now, so we need to make it work.

Let's address the [Non-Fungible] part first 
3/ To understand non-fungible, we must first understand fungible.

"(of goods contracted for without an individual specimen being specified) able to replace or be replaced by another identical item; mutually interchangeable."

-Oxford English Dictionary 
4/ One important observation is that very few things in life are fungible.

Look around you.

Your table, your ham sandwich, your husband or wife, your dog, your goldfish, your kid, your t-shirt, your rosebush, your neighbor, your car

All non-fungible 
5/ We mostly encounter fungible objects in financial matters where fungibility is a simplification to make things efficient.

If you buy 10 shares of Google from your broker, you don't care which 10 shares you received, they are all 'mutually interchangeable' 
6/ If you go to deli and buy a bagel with cream cheese and you pay with cash, neither you nor the deli owner care which specific $5 bill you are giving him.

BTC and ETH are the same way. When you pay for gas to snipe a Golden Snail, you don't care which ETH you are using 
7/ OK, so all of that above is WRONG.

Bank Notes are actually non-fungible. See that serial number in the top left.

That is a unique identifier that tells you all types of things about the bank note

https://www.uscurrency.gov/denominations/bank-note-identifiers
8/ Google shares also are numbered.

The precise way to think about bank notes and company shares is that they are:

1) non-fungible financial instruments
2) that we have all socially decided to treat as fungible

OK, is that it? No there is more 
9/ Money is not truly fungible, primarily due to anti-money-laundering regulations

Trying taking $1M in cash to your local Citibank branch and see how fungible it is

Or try wiring USD to/from North Korea

Or even, in a market far from the USA, try trading a torn bank note. 
10/ OK, fine, what about grain? That is another fungible good.

Sure, we treat it as fungible for convenience, but it is certainly non-fungible.

If we had the technology to analyze every single grain of wheat in silo in an fast way, we would see they are all different. 
11/ So the precise way to think about fungible objects IRL is that, typically, they are:

a) non-fungible objects
b) that we have decided to treat as fungible for convenience
c) except, in some cases, when we treat them as non-fungible after all 
12/ Almost everything is non-fungible.

In a different path of history, NFTs would just have been called "tokens" and in the few cases that we want them to be fungible, we would have invented FTs ("fungible tokens").

But, here we are, so we proceed 
13/ So what does a 'non-fungible' token mean in a crypto context?

It means something very simple. It has a number.

This is Fidenza #313 on the ArtBlocks contract. You see that "313" at the end of the URL?

That is the token number that ends in "313"

https://opensea.io/assets/0xa7d8d9ef8d8ce8992df33d8b8cf4aebabd5bd270/78000313
14/ Here is the Etherscan of the tx when the 6529 Museum acquired 313

What you are seeing is that two wallets swapped:

[1,000 Ether Tokens]
for
[1 Art Blocks token 78000313]


https://etherscan.io/tx/0x41c71c8a1f73d31ed278c6cf9e84c24dc102ca777f33ad48886e753852a7aab6
15/ Go down one, and you get Fidenza token 312


https://opensea.io/assets/0xa7d8d9ef8d8ce8992df33d8b8cf4aebabd5bd270/78000312
16/ Go up one, and you get Fidenza token 314

NFTs are just numbered tokens. #312 is a different number than #313 that is a different number than #314. It is that simple.


https://opensea.io/assets/0xa7d8d9ef8d8ce8992df33d8b8cf4aebabd5bd270/78000314
17/ OK, but where is the art?

What art? NFTs are TOKENS.

Tokens can be used to represent anything, not just "art"

I could issue 100 6529PartyTokens and say "whoever has one, can come to my party on Saturday night"

And the lower the number, the more priority you get in line. 
18/ I know this sounds dumb, but it is very deep. NFTs are tokens.

What you are buying, selling, storing in your Ethereum wallet is the token, nothing more and nothing else.

Once you understand this, you will actually understand everything about NFTs 
19/ So back to Fidenzas.

How do we know that these specific tokens on this specific Ethereum contract represent the true and genuine Fidenza tokens?

Well because @artblocks_io (the platform) and @tylerxhobbs (the artist) told us, that is why.

This is also that simple. 
20/ OK, but where is the art? Well, this depends on the specific implementation.

Let's go through in order from more to less centralized.

An NFT token has a URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) which you can think of as a URL 
21/ In the most centralized implementation of an NFT, that URL will point to someone's website with an  of the art.

So the model here is:
a) this token
b) points to this URL
c) at this URL is this JPG

Wait, what? This sounds fake? You are buying a URL?! 
22/ No, you are not buying a URL.

You are buying a piece of art and the token is the certificate of authenticity.

Just like when you buy 6529PartyToken, and the URI has the address to my bar, you are not buying a URL, you are buying good times at my bar 
23/ I bought an Andy Warhol Tomato Soup Can print a few years ago.

But there are also posters, replicas, fake Warhol prints and so on.

How did I know I was spending six figures on "the real one"?

Well, it is kindof disconcerting if you come from crypto land

24/ [Nice man at the gallery] See, this is Andy Warhol's signature on the back.

[6529] Cool! But how do I know this signature is real?

[Gallery Man] Here is this piece of paper where my gallery says it is real

[6529] How do you know?

[GM] We are a top gallery, etc, etc 
25/ For someone used to cryptographic signatures, a piece of paper and some hand-waving was an utterly alarming confirmation on which to spend six figures.

But I wanted a soup can, the gallery is legit, I swallowed hard and bought it, counting that the social consensus was real 
26/ By IRL art world standards, the provenance assurances for NFT art are so lol better that it is like comparing a rocket ship to a horse.

There are hundreds of thousands, soon to be millions of people, soon to be hundreds of millions who know @tylerxhobbs & Fidenzas 
27/ And even if Tyler and the art blocks team are captured by aliens tomorrow, we are not all going to forget on which contract Fidenzas were issued.

Unlike with soup cans where I relied on an opaque assurance from an insider, anyone can check which wallet has Fidenza 313 token 
28/ So back to where the art is? Pointing to a centralized website is ok, not great.

Why not great? Well someone, ideally, will keep the website running for a long time and people are bad at that.

Now, it is not as tragic as people make it out to be 
29/ Why is the URI useful?

It is useful for automated services, progressively metaverse-like. The reason that @opensea and @oncyber_io know what to display on their website/gallery is that they follow the URI.

If the site goes down, the automated system will fail 
30/ OK, that sounds bad? It is bad for unknown art.

If this happened for a famous piece of art, for which there is broad and practical social consensus about what the art is, it would not matter. People would link to somewhere else with a copy of the art and life goes on. 
31/ OK, what is better than that?

The next step in decentralization of the art itself is to point the URI to decentralized storage like IPFS instead of to a website.

Now you are not relying on one website to stay up and anyone, including the buyer, can replicate 
32/ This is quite good.

I think URIs pointing to IPFS or Arweave are more than good enough for pretty good longevity assurances.

If pieces are important, people will pin them and keep them alive.

This should be the market standard for now 
33/ What comes after that? Well, you can put the art onchain - store the actual art on the Ethereum blockchain.

This is massively, hugely expensive because you are creating thousands of copies of it.

There you just need ETH to survive for longevity assurances 
34/ This is only practical for procedurally or vector based art so the file size can be made small enough.

It can't work for, say, photography because it will be cost-prohibitive.

It will be a cool, but niche approach for now 
35/ The 6529 Gradients have done both (IPFS and on-chain)

The SVG (vector file) for each gradient was written into the blockchain itself.

The URI points to a rendered  on IPFS

https://opensea.io/collection/6529-gradient
36/ So I think for art longevity, it goes as follows:

a) centralized website: OK, not great, can work for important art due to social consensus

b) decentralized storage: very good!

c) on-chain: great, but for certain cases only

d) on-chain + decentralized storage: nerd mode 
37/ With that all taken care of, let's talk about the silly stuff.

"Right Click, Save As"

What you are buying is the certificate of authenticity, the token, and its security assurances are infinity times stronger than IRL art.

No faking it possible 
38/ Right-click Saving As Fidenza 313 is exactly like Right Click Saving As a Warhol soup can.

You can download a Warhol for your computer
You can buy a poster online
You can commission someone to print a copy

But you don't own a Warhol original print that way 
39/ The main difference between "can you fake a Fidenza?" and "can you fake a Warhol?" is that is infinity times harder to fake a Fidenza.

Sadly for him, Right Click Save As guy has it literally backwards. 
40/ "OK, but everyone can see your Fidenza even if they don't buy it"

This is some weird stuff.

It is almost like these people have never heard of a "museum" where you can go see all types of art that you don't own. 
41/ The fact that NFTs have solved the problem of:

"someone can own it and pay the artist"
and
"everyone in the world can see it and enjoy it"

is a huge boom to the world, to art, to public goods and to making the world a better place. 
42/ You can confirm this by checking the opposite case.

Imagine that all the rich people in the world got together to buy all the art and hide it in a freeport warehouse in Geneva.

Is this something to be applauded or to be horrified about?

We are on the right side here fam 
43/ I do not collect art to hide it from other people.

That my Warhol can only be in one place at once, and I can't have all of you over to see it, is a bug, not a feature.

Fidenzas can be both online and also printed on my wall if I choose

44/ "But you don't own the copyright to the NFT art"

This is also weird stuff.

I don't own the copyright to the Warhol soup can I bought either, the Warhol estate does.

I also did not acquire the copyright to the Harry Potter franchise when I bought the book at Amazon. 
45/ One sec: I saw this in the replies and thought this deserved a place in the thread


46/ So, let's summarize the important stuff:

a) Everything is non-fungible
b) The token is the NFT
c) A token can represent anything (art is just the start)
d) Provenance is perfect in NFTs
e) NFTs have feature after feature after feature. IRL is kindof buggy tho  
47/ If you would like to learn more about NFTs or why fighting for an open metaverse is important, go to this pinned tweet.

The first link is educational. The second link is the plan.

1/ On The City Experiment

I started this thread below literally on a 1 second feelz-converted-to-a-tweet.

Been thinking about it a bit more and will share a couple of thoughts plus a new organizational model for the cities in the thread below


2/ For me the most amazing thing about art is "you get to see the world through someone else's eyes"

What more incredible thing than this? I go through life trying to absorb as much as possible - through travel, through books, through as much inflow to my brain as possible 
3/ Art is another way to do this, from very practical "here is a picture of an iceberg or person that I might never see IRL" to conceptual "here is what Dali dreams about"

It is awesome 
4/ Back to the city experiment. It is a way to see our vast grand world through many people's eyes.

Buildings? yes
People? yes
Food? yes
Anything you want us to see? yes 
5/ Can people post:

NFTs? yes
non-NFTs? yes
photographs? yes
paintings? yes
any way they interpret a city? yes
their NFTs? yes
NFTs of others? yes 
6/ So I am going to keep going for a while and see how this goes.

A technical change - each new set of cities will be in a batch of 5 cities in a new thread, linked here, bc otherwise the replies will all be lost under the list of cities.

So cities #51 to #55 are inbound 
7/ NEW: Cities #51 to #55 in the thread below


8/ NEW: Cities #56 to #60 in the thread below


9/ NEW: Cities #61 to #65 in the thread below


10/ NEW: Cities 66 to 70 and a special free-for-all at #69


1/ On Eyes On Earth and Citizen Science

First, you MUST go watch this remarkable piece of art by @MattScobel that joined 6529 Museum Permanent Collection

It is a 24 hour view of all satellites circling the earth

2/ Second, read about the process of putting this together

Hundreds of hours of work went into compiling the data, modeling it, trouble-shooting it and so on. 

Eyes on Earth  Scobel Photography
3/ What do I see here?

I see the beginnings of a new funding model, not just for art, but for collectively funded citizen science.

This particular NFT is as much science as it is art, not far off from the type of work that might receive a research grant or be a thesis. 
4/ I am glad that:
a) this work exists in the world
b) it exists in a format that it is free for anyone to view
c) there is a mechanism to reward @MattScobel economically for such great work
d) this mechanism provides me with an incentive to buy it 
5/ In theory, this all could have been done without an NFT, but I think in practice it is impossible.

I had no idea that I wanted to support this until I saw it.

@MattScobel had no idea that I existed.

How would we have found each other? 
6/ And if we had found each other, what would we have done?

Written a research proposal? Negotiate a whole bunch of annoying terms?

And what would I have received? My name on the paper? 
7/ Instead the NFT did the matchmaking work here.

The intangible output got embedded into an NFT.

That allowed it to use the full NFTs rails for promoting, purchasing, financializing, displaying NFTs.

I do not need to negotiate a bespoke agreement. I just buy the NFT 
8/ To the nitpicking lawyers out there who are saying "but what did you buy?"

What I bought is what we always buy in NFTs - intangible goods like identity and provenance.

I'm proud to be associated with this work, just like I'm proud to own a Fidenza. 
9/ There are endless ways this can be extended to collectively fund citizen science, both prospectively and retrospectively.

I would love to see more ideas along this line, including where appropriate releasing the underlying data, models and so on into the public domain. 
10/ As discussed before, NFTs are not just a transport layer for art.

They are a transport layer for intangibles and intangibles are both:

a) a huge and growing part of any modern economy
and
b) the apex objects of society 
11/ So again congratulations @MattScobel on this innovative work.

Thanks @cathsimard_ who retweeted this into my sights (the amount of innovation in / around @cathsimard_ is )

And I'm putting down a marker.

There will be a rebirth of citizen science fueled by NFTs 
12/ Or to put it differently:

LFG Science!!! 
13/ Adding @MattScobel's response thread to this thread. It is awesome and you should read it all.


14/ Closing this thread here.

For more threads about NFTs, go here:



1/ On the 6529 Gradient Collection

So now that @lphaCentauriKid is live with his SR Genesis piece...

...time to add some more end-of-week fun and send @6529er live with his NFT genesis piece. 
2/ As most of you know, @6529er has designed the iconic 6529 logo.

I am obsessed with this logo. I sometimes go to my own profile page just to look at it.

It is, imho, @6529er's finest work.

It is time tonight to start step 1 of its journey into the metaverse.


3/ A few weeks ago, I asked @6529er to think about how he would like to represent the logo in his genesis collection.

He came back with the type of austere, clean and subtle collection that I love. 
4/ The 6529 Gradient Collection represents the logo in 100 subtly different gradients, from black on white (#0), to white on black (#100).

Below are Gradient #33 and Gradient #66 for example.


5/ On a gradient by gradient basis, the differences are subtle.

This is the type of  approach that I love.

It reminds me of the Chromie Squiggles Perfect Spectrums - much less flashy than the HyperRainbows, but it is an iykyk choice. 
6/ What is the distribution model?

We are definitely keeping #0 and #100 for the 6529 Museum, maybe up to 10% of the Gradients

Tonight we will auction #1

We will auction the others in the coming days and weeks at a pace we will decide.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/1
7/ Will there be a roadmap? No
How about treasury to sweep the floor? Nope
How about promises that the floor will go up? No, definitely not that

This is just @6529er's art being minted for whoever may appreciate it. 
8/ I can imagine many other things that this iconic logo can do.

Many interesting experiments to come, many ways for it to live in the metaverse.

So you should expect other collections and collabs involving the logo.

But the Gradients are @6529er's vision in its purest form. 
9/ For the broad 6529 Fam, please remember that @6529er is currently working on the 6529 Fam NFT that also includes the logo.

This NFT will be free (plus gas). We do not plan to exclude *anyone* from 6529 Fam.

So do not FOMO into this collection at levels you can't afford. 
10/ Now, we believe in decentralization at 6529 HQ, so these NFTs are doubly decentralized.

a) each NFT is an SVG that is stored entirely on-chain
b) secondarily, each NFT is backup stored on IPFS via the URI

If IPFS and ETH both fail, then, sorry fam, crypto has not made it 
11/ The more mathematically inclined readers will note that #0 to #100 represents 101 tokens, not 100.

That is right, there is a special token, #50 that is built different.

It is a gif (how could we not have a gif?) and, like the squiggles, it moves.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/50
12/ As soon as I post this thread, I will send #1 live to a 24 hour auction.

The reserve will be a very fancy 0.6529 ETH

On a personal level, currently trying to figure out how to prevent myself from buying them all to get a complete 'vertical set'  
13/ I would like to again express my congratulations and  to @6529er.

He is not just part of 6529 Fam, he is a long time friend of mine.

I am honored by his contribution to the 6529 mission and so very proud of him.

 
14/ For everyone's reference, the official link to the collection is here.

Please be careful in case clones pop up.

I will keep this thread updated with developments.


https://opensea.io/collection/6529-gradient?search[sortAscending]=true&search[sortBy]=CREATED_DATE
15/ OK, we are live. Have fun everyone


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/1
16/ Meme bids are very much approved!

17/ Chad meme bid of 4.69ETH by miniminiminimini on Gradient #1

Respect for the respect of the meme


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/1
18/ Another chad meme bid of 9.69ETH by unnamed for Gradient 1. Interestingly big gaps in the bids.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/1
20/ 

Congratulations to 896B94 for seizing Gradient #1 for the very memetic price of 9.69ETH!

896B94, if you are on twitter and would to say 'hi' publicly or in DM, it is welcomed. If not, also awesome

And @6529er for his first NFT sale!

https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/1
21/ In order to keep things interesting, gradient-wise, the next one to go to auction is #99 on the opposite end of the spectrum.

Once again, listed at 0.6529 for 24 hours.

Have fun everyone!


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/99
22/ miniminimini is back for round 2 with the leading bid! good luck ser!


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/99
23/ Another meme bid! 7D69E6 with a 6.529ETH for #99.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/99
24/ Congratulations to @ZeroSalt420 for seizing Gradient #99 for 12.69ETH

This is you right, ser?


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/99
25/ Gradient #2 is now live for auction at the exciting price of 0.6529 ETH.

Going to try something different this time.

In 30 minutes, will send Gradient #98 live too for fun double auction dynamics.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/2
26/ Gradient #98 is now live


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/98
27/ Congratulations to miniminiminimini who finally made it happen on the third attempt and is now the owner of Gradient 2!

I thought of tweeting, but did not want to blow them up

Number 98 still live tho & they don't get a free run at a 2nd one 


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/98
28/ So it appears that i have been complicit in miniminiminimini stealing #2.

#98 is up to 10ETH now so it looks like mini is going to have gotten the steal of the whole collection!

 
29/ new ATH for Gradient Collection with Mister Todd winning an epic auction for #98 with the winning bid of 29ETH

Congratulations Mister Todd and make contact if you like


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/98
30/ Back to 1 auction at a time for today. The 2 at time auction did not produce any interesting action IMHO.

Gradient #3 is now live with a starting bid of 0.6529ETH

Have fun!


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/3
31/ Identified the Al Capone of our generation who stole Gradient #2 for 2.69ETH

The lesson here is "shoot your shot" & be persistent. I saw miniminiminimini trying every auction to-date & decided not to tweet the auction end

Congrats & be worthy of #2!


32/ Because the auction endings are a) fun and b) getting later and later in 6529 timezone, I have sent Gradient #97 live to auction now to 'reset' the clock back a few hours.

As always, opening bid is: 0.6529

#3 still live and top bid is 15ETH


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/97
33/ Gradient #97 is SOLD for 15.1ETH to 982D3C. Thank you ser and make contact if you like.

Gradient #4 is next at bat with an opening bid of 0.6529.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/4
33/ Congratulations to 0x982d3 who is clearly thinking ahead and has now snagged #4 to have a matching white and dark background

We are going to take a break until Friday night, because 6529 has failed to plan ahead for his auctioning responsibilities 


https://opensea.io/0x982d3c5223f6b5794fccb3208eb164d042cf2526
34/ I think 7 Gradients have been auctioned so far. Enough for me to start testing ideas. 

Existing collectors: Starting thinking about if there is an NFT you would like to display and put it in the same wallet as your Gradient.

More on this in a day or two. 
34/ What time is it? It is GRADIENT time again. We are back in action.

Gradient #96 is live with a reserve of 0.6529ETH

Have fun everyone!

Might send another one tonight too


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/96
35/ Once again, have lost track of my own auctions!

Congratulations to @steve_abootman for collecting Gradient #96 a few hours ago!!!

Reminder, starting thinking about what you want to display.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/96
36/ It is a bit late, but the show goes on.

Gradient #5 is now live with a reserve of 0.6529ETH.

This is an attractive number. Have fun.


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/5
37/ Sending #95 live to start getting the times more reasonable 

Reserve price as always: 0.6529ETH

20 minutes left on #5 and it is at 2.22 


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/95
38/ Congratulations to @ellsbells0109 for winning the auction for Gradient #5 for 8.50ETH

Today's live Gradient is #95


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/95
39/ Gradient #6 is now live

Reserve price of: 0.6529ETH


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/6
40/ 12 minutes left on very aesthetic number, number 95


https://opensea.io/assets/0x0c58ef43ff3032005e472cb5709f8908acb00205/95
41/ So @The_MegaVega seems to have caught everyone not paying attention and sniped #6 for 3.5ETH

gg ser

Will try to make these more consistent this weekend because the competitiveness of the auctions goes all over the map 


1/ On A Pathway To An Open Metaverse

We are going to make a run at changing the arc of history.

It is a Return of the Jedi vs the Death Star style mission.

They have the money and the power. We mostly have our brains, our community and gm.

But it might be just enough 
2/ A step back.

6529 has been involved in crypto since BTC summer 2013.

From the first day, I was convinced that BTC and its successors would change the world, make it a better world, decentralize power away from choke points, and that this was a net good for humanity 
3/ I played a small role in BTC's development and acceptance.

Small in the scheme of things, but important to me, and, at the time, it was a "risky" move.

And since then I have been waiting for our more decentralized social systems to emerge.

And waiting, and waiting... 
4/ 6529 has 'institutional credentials.'

I am completely comfortable in the 'system' and the system is good to me.

I am not a loser in our current system, I am a winner.

But my heart is in crypto, I spend a lot of time on crypto IRL, and know a lot about crypto. 
5/ I did not seriously look at NFTs until February and within months....

...well, I like the JPGs and by summer I had quite the NFT portfolio.

So what next?

6/ The easy choice was to sit back and relax.

Enjoying my IRL life while making lots of ETH looking at pretty JPGs is about as Level 4 as 6529 can get.

Maybe I can even convince myself it is Level 5 ("I am self-actualizing through art") 


7/ But I had a problem, and that problem is I can see a window, a wormhole, a lever that can, maybe, lead to an Open Metaverse.

It is one of the most important things in the world

And it is a very narrow window, both scope and time-limited

Soon, it will be too late 
8/ It is very easy to complain that the world isn't how it should be while doing nothing about it.

In fact, often while contributing to the exact problem we are complaining about (hi, crypto fam on Single-Point-Of-Failure Twitter, looking at you here)

Talk is cheap. 
9/ Life is short and then you die frens.

If Level 4 and Level 5 people like me (and a lot of crypto s) aren't willing to put some skin in the game on decentralization, then we are LARPing, we are bullshitters, we are just using "decentralization" for marketing. 
10/ So, in late July 2021, 6529 was booted up.

The goal of everything I have been doing is to help you see the window too, to see what I see and to yearn for it.

11/ If you want to build a ship, don't drum up the men to gather wood, divide the work and give orders. Instead, teach them to yearn for the vast and endless sea.

- Antoine de St Exupery (1900 - 1944) 
12/ What do I yearn for?

That our children and grandchildren will remain free.

That they will remain sovereign beings.

That we don't sleepwalk into a panopticon society controlled by a handful of people with "God view" of a big data, machine-learning enabled system. 
13/ This sounds dramatic, but the trendline on this topic is bad. China is already gone.

And the US and EU are creeping in the wrong direction.

So we need to act now before it is becomes irreversible. 
14/ Acting now is a no-lose proposition:

If the apologists are right and the system is not centralizing, then our efforts at decentralization will be welcomed by governments and companies 

If we are not welcomed, then it will have been a good thing we acted 

 
15/ For those new around here, go read the theory first.

Take your time, we will be waiting.


Time to switch modes to "what are we going to do"

Buckle up, this is going to be long tweetstorm even by 6529 standards and Twitter is going to make me do it in phases.

Be patient as the tweets come in. I will let you know when we are done  
17/ My view is that the default outcome of the metaverse will be centralized.

Big tech has the money, talent, massive reach and, interestingly, the full support and encouragement of nation-states to exercise more control, not less control.

 
18/ So what is left for us?

There is only one thing stronger than money, reach, talent and the vast power of the Federal Government.

That one thing is shared myths or memes.

Memes are the apex object of society. 
19/ In a consumerist democracies like the US and Europe, memes elect politicians, they drive consumption (and corporate earnings) and set the direction of society at large.

The system is good at memes too btw.

Check out two good ones below

But...


20/ ...we now have with NFTs the potent meme-technology ever developed.

Unlike the past, anyone can own a part of a powerful meme.

"The medium is the message" and there is currently an open space, a gap before the medium is claimed by the system.

We have to grab it now. 
21/ There are two main messages to the execution plan that I would like you to take away from today:

1) NFTs are people

2) Memes > land

wtf is 6529 talking about again? 
22/ "NFTs are people"

Behind every punk, BAYC, coolcat, wassie, toadz, there is a living breathing human being.

Someone who makes decisions about how they live their life, what they spend money on, where they volunteer their time and who they vote for. 
23/ The 10,000 punks are a open publicly-readable, but pseudonymous, database of people who most strongly believe certain things about crypto, about NFTs and about the future

Think about that
Then think about that again
Then think about that again until your jaw hits the floor 
24/ The same is true for BAYC, for squiggles, for cool cats, for wassies, for toadz.

NFTs are a combination of identity and social organization, with zero membership criteria, fully global, composable.

Anyone can make a product for punks to opt-in to 
25/ We have never had a social organizing tool this powerful.

NFTs are the same class of solution as BTC, but looser, more abstract, more human.

Buying a BAYC does not commit you to a super-strict set of rules like "21M BTC only" but that is OK, because humans are non-fungible 
26/ Every BAYC holder can extract and interpret their own meaning from BAYC.

It will not and should not be the exact same thing for each individual.

We are humans, not drones.

But like on average, BAYC holders will think/act more alike than non-BAYC holders. 
27/ This is how all societal myth-building institutions work.

The Republican Party
The Democratic Party
The Catholic Church
The United States Marine Corps
The ACLU
Greenpeace

Each member is different, but the group has broadly coordinated goals. 
28/ NFT communities will be exactly like this.

Some people will be truly dedicated true believers.
Some will help a bit
Some will be along for the ride
Some will be there for the free pizza and beer
Some will be sent by enemies to sabotage the show

This is fine, normal. 
29/ Why do I say "gm" to all of you?

Because it is a reminder that behind those avatars are real life people.

I say "gm" at home, at work, to people in a coffeeshop.

Why wouldn't I say gm to you too?

Also, gm


6529 gm
Immerse yourself in 6529's 6529 gm. Featuring NFTs from ONDI, RUBENBIGQ, NFT Time - gm, good_mornings, roguespectre, AakankshaPanwar, ashikjoh and many more
https://oncyber.io/6529gm
30/ Memes > land

I believe the metaverse is going to come and it is going to be fantastic.

In ten years, the resolution will be high, the features will be bountiful, the dopamine traps will be honed to perfection.

And so I spent a lot of time worrying about this 
31/ Why was I worrying about this?

Because "start off with nothing and build the winning decentralized metaverse tech stack" is not a winnable fam project.

It is nightmare battle against hundreds of competitors trying to do the same, with infinite corporate and VC budgets 
32/ So the problem I was been struggling with is "what does it mean if we are going to go off to build a 6529 decentralized metaverse?"

Do we all go buy plots in Decentraland? Sonium? Galleries in OnCyber? And by next year, 100 more. 
33/ None of these seemed like winning strategies.

This is basically betting humanity's future on "will you make the right VC bet on a winning platform in the most hotly contested space in tech"

Too hard. Back to the drawing board. 
34/ I had to work hard on this one. Really hard. This was the part where I had to stretch my thinking the most.

It was really hard. Even today I just see an outline of it. A glimmer on the horizon, but I see it.

35/ My answer to this question is "memes > land", that controlling the memes matters more than the specific metaverse tech stack in which you present them.

Come again? What does this mean? Examples, always examples. 
36/ If the Louvre burned down, if the concrete and steel was gone, but the Mona Lisa was saved.

Is it over? Are we done with the Mona Lisa? Bin her, move on?

Or do we build a new Louvre, new concrete, new steel?

The Louvre is beautiful but replaceable. The Mona Lisa is not. 
37/ Let's play this game in our world

Would you come see Sunshine in OnCyber? Would you see him in Decentraland? How about in Somnium?

What about in "whatever comes next?"

My answer, my vote, my gut is "yes".

If so, summer.jpg > land

38/ So with this logic, I will lay out the first two parts of the plan.

Don't worry, there are another 5 more. 

"NFTs are people" means 6529 Fam


39/ What this means that there are some of us, maybe 50,000 today, maybe 500,000 in 6 months, maybe 5,000,000 in a couple of years, maybe 50,000,000 in a few years that believe the metaverse should be open

And each one of us might be able to make a small difference in that fight 
40/ For most people, I would be thrilled with small actions.

Maybe you can talk to your friend? Maybe you vote for the slightly less control freak candidate in your local election. Maybe you will learn to hold an NFT in a non-custodial wallet?

Across enough people it matters 
41/ But 6529, the 6529 fam is 100% centralized and controlled by www dot twitter dot com right now.

Yes, this is correct and this is bad and we are going to change that.

Everyone in 6529 fam will get a free NFT, now and forever (you will probably have to pay for gas) 
42/ I am a rarity sniper collector. I am quite good at it.

But super-expensive is a dumb way to build a large community to change the world.

The price of entry to 6529 fam should be ideally $0. For now, it will be the cost of gas on ETH, but in time other L1s/L2s, why not? 
43/ We need a 6529 Fam NFT so we can find each other permissionlessly.

Will there be roadmap? No
A governance token? Also no
Will the price go up? Well supply is infinite
What will we do? Whatever you want 
44/ @6529er has been working on something. It is not final, but it is indicative of where we are headed with this.

Is this final? We are not sure yet, but it is in this direction.

45/ But if it is free, won't we have a signal-to-noise ratio problem?

Yes, yes, in fact we will. We need an anti-Sybil attack measure. See "Generation 1" in the card?

I took a snapshot of this account's twitter followers last night and that will be the authentication key 
46/ It is possible I might take another snapshot in the next couple of days.

I believe I know how I plan to do this, but I want to test it a bit, so I reserve the right to change my mind.

But 'free' and sybil attacks go together, so I will fight back  
47/ What is the timing on fam card?

I think the next few weeks.

What if you missed on on the snapshot?

Don't worry, there will be another one.

I am not trying to exclude people, but just preserve the signal. More on this at the very end of the thread. 
48/ Let's move to Project 2: 6529 City.

6529 Fam is totally abstract, totally decentralized and yet I think very powerful for this reason.

It is just a way for people who believe in decentralization to take steps in that direction.

The "City" is a step more tangible 
49/ Today we live in a metaverse composed of twitter and discord avatars and opensea and a bit of various virtual land platforms.

Bit by bit, this metaverse will become more real, more tangible, more visual, more rich, more engaging 
50/ In 10 years, I believe you will not be a 24 x 24px avatar in a text based feed on my laptop screen.

In 10 years we will be chilling in some type of augmented and virtual reality that feels quite real.

So along the way, we will take steps in that directions 
51/ What does this mean? We will set up shop in various metaverses and start feeling what it feels like to take more substance.

For now, it is not very important what parameters they have because I think the tech stack will change over and over again.

I want to get the feelz 
52/ I have very much enjoyed working my galleries in @oncyber_io so for the next few months I will be testing different ideas there.

Is it decentralized? Only in some ways. Can it rug me? Not really. I can just pick up the Tulip and go somewhere else 
53/ Will present day OnCyber be the metaverse we have all been dreaming of? No, definitely not.

But we need to start playing around with UX, UI, interactions to understand what works and what doesn't.

Do you have to come to OnCyber? Nope, start playing around wherever 
54/ This leads me to a serious point, to an important point, to why I am collecting for the 6529 Museum, to why I have spent $10s of millions on JPGs.

I lived in NYC for many years and so NYC analogies come easily to me.

So let's think through some analogies 
55/ Why is the MoMA important to NYC? Is it the gift shop? Is it the cafe? Of course not.

The value of the MoMA is that it:
a) attracts tourists to NYC
b) improves the quality of life for residents
c) sends a message about innovation in the city & attracts people to NYC 
56/ In other words, the MoMA provides public goods (positive externalities) to NYC.

That is the point of the 6529 Museum too. It will provide public goods, positive externalities to 6529 City

This is not just generically the strategy, it is specifically my collecting plan 
57/ I have not been collecting to maximize ROI or aesthetics. I have been collecting to maximize 'hard to copy'

Why? If I am right, one day vastly richer people and institutions will start buying NFTs and will swamp me.

Good for value, bad for 6529 Museum mattering 
58/ If the 6529 Museum only had 15 high quality punks, would it be an important museum in 10 years in the metaverse? probably not. Others will have many more

So I have been looking for collecting themes that only 5 or 10 or 20 institutions can do, so the Museum will stay unique 
59/ In particular, I zoomed in on a horizontal collection of early on-chain generative art, particularly Art Blocks Curated, that there can only be a few of in the future.

I will discuss the details of this another day 
60/ Same logic applies with the vertical squiggle collection.

There will be only 20 places in the whole metaverse you can see all squiggle types and 6529 City will be one of them.

And one of 10 where there is a variant perfect or full spectrum 
61/ This is not to brag or make more money, but because memes > land.

Building or controlling a permanently differentiated JPG collection is an orders of magnitude more cost-effective way to have leverage in metaverse than trying to build the winning one 
62/ And then there are our uber-meme warriors, the two JPGs that possibly would be enough to stake a decentralized city and nation all by themselves, even if we had no other JPGs


63/ So the goal is not to build the MoMA of the metaverse, but the NYC of the metaverse.

The 6529 Museum is my skin in the game.

It is me staking tens of millions of dollars, soon to be hundreds of millions of dollars, of public goods and saying "I am all-in here"

64/ Or, to put it differently, here is the plan for the 6529 City

65/ OK, but what specifically are we going to do?

I have no idea. I am going to head in a certain direction and if you like it and want to come along and do interesting and fun things, that is great.

If you don't, that is also great. 
66/ But I don't want to live in 6529 City, I want to live in Sin City or Miami City or MoonCat City!

Great! You can still be part of 6529 Fam and build your MoonCat Miami Beach City.

My city skeumorphism runs to NYC so that is how I think of cities, but that is personal. 
67/ If you make a cool Mooncats-on-Miami-Beach, then we can all visit.

The great thing about the metaverse, is we are all just a click away 
68/ OK, what is next?

Well, we have interesting messages we want to send to the world and I can't do them all myself so we need a platform to get these messages out.

So #3 on the list is 6529 Studio, an NFT studio focused on outreach, fun and experimentation 
69/ 6529 Studio is going to have three general collections:
 WAGMI: Large collections (>1,000 to much much more) that are meant to onboard people to NFTs
 Right Click: Rarity game collections to make @Vince_Van_Dough and me weak in the knees
 wut: weird stuff we want to try 
70/ I am delighted to let you know that the first project of 6529 Studios is to help bring Sunshine to the world.

@XCOPYART and I have been talking about this since the day I collected summer.jpg

We both agree that Sunshine should not just sit on the wall of the 6529 Museum 
70/ So we are working together to bring Sunshine out into the world at large, to be our ambassador of WAGMI to the rest of the world.

Sunshine WAGMI 

Launch is not imminent, but a hint of what we are thinking: "sunrays"

71/ The second project will be "No Shame" that has been inspired by the amazing @dmitricherniak work "It's such a shame I fixed this bug"

As @dmitricherniak says: some of the best beauty and art comes from mistakes and we should not be ashamed of them, we should celebrate them.

72/ The immediate goal of this project is broadly to encourage artists to share their best 'mistaken' work.

@dmitricherniak has kindly accepted to curate some pieces for this project.

But more broadly, we want to help artists build their confidence in their voice.

 
73/ There are more projects in the pipeline, more ideas, but these two should give you a flavor of what we have in mind.

Like everything else, 6529 Studio is on a mission 
74/ Next project, 6529 Capital.

Organized capital is going to come into the space and it is going to come in size. And it will swamp the early native-NFT individuals.

Since this is going to happen, might as well be jujitsu-ed to serve decentralization objectives 
75/ I am very proud to announce an extraordinary team that will be working (with me) on this project, some of the finest collecting minds in the world.

I don't think I can do them justice so I am just going to blurt it out:

@krybharat
@ac_collecting
@bonafidehan
@phon_ro 
76/ Also I would like to thank the team for allowing me to make my favorite slide I have ever made in my life.

77/ I think it is important that at least some capital providers remain in NFT native hands for a variety of reasons I will explain later

If you think you can help here, please get in touch 
78/ On to the next one: 6529 Education

I won't spend too much time on this because it is obvious.

We need a huge amount of education to help people onboard and be successful in the space.

Tweetstorms are great, but we need more structured content. Will work on this too 
79/ 6529 Labs

The goal is an open metaverse. the open metaverse will not be just 6529 fam.

I view the open metaverse as a series of city-states and communities ringing the globe.

So we are going to try to open-source what we can that will help others also build. 
80/ A good example of the type of project I have in mind here is the decentralized, open-source license builder to allow artists to communicate the precise license they would like to use.

This won't be built just by 6529 Labs, but we can help catalyze the project 
81/ 6529 Policy

This is for a bit later, but in time we will need to ultimately effect change in the real world.

I am flagging this for now and will come back to it early next year I believe 
82/ Now let's take a break and have some fun with @6529er.

We said earlier that the fam card is free to maximize access and that is correct!

But one reason punks are a signal is because people put skin in the game when buying (or not selling a punk) 
83/ So we will run some small experiments too within the 6529 Collection which is not part of the Studio, is just interesting things 6529 wants to do.

@6529er made the 6529 logo and it one of the most impressive logos I have ever seen 
84/ So time to introduce him more formally to the world as an artist with 6529 Gradient, his interpretation of his own logo.

It is 100 different shades of the logo from all white to all black

Here is #0, #33, #67, #100




85/ This collection will be extra decentralized.

Each  will be both minted on chain as an SVG and also 'backed up' on IPFS.

If both IPFS and ETH are not functional at some point in the future, well, it was fun everyone, but crypto did not make it. 
86/ What is the model here?

We will mint these and keep some and auction some at a pace that will be determined solely based on our whims and schedule.

If we get around to it, #1 will be auctioned tomorrow.

We are definitely keeping #0 for the 6529 museum.  
87/
Is there a roadmap? No
Is there a governance token? No
How about a treasury to sweep the floor? No
Why are there only 100? Because we are giving 80,000 and counting free NFTs!
Should you buy it? Only if you like @6529er's art at a price you can afford. 
88/ Nerd alert. My first time setting an all-time high price was a Perfect Spectrum squiggle.

The PS squiggles are a nerd choice, less flashy than the HyperRainbows, but more mathematical.

I view the Gradient logos this way too 
89/ Also, there is one more thing. #50 is going to be extra special.

Like our friends the squiggles, it moves. 

Good luck getting that out of my hands @6529er 
90/ Now a few more things and we wrap this up.

Over the last few weeks, I took some seed investors into 6529, primarily for their very large s

I did not warn them re mega-thread so I am not going to dox them, but let's say they are household names in decentralization. 
91/ They can decide to dox or not as they choose, but regardless, they have spent a lot of time in crypto, their heart is in the right place and I hope they will enjoy riding on this mission. 
92/ I will introduce again:

@6529Guardian who is a giga-crypto regulatory attorney who is here on team 6529 to help ensure the system does not catch us on a technicality

&

@itsjpower w/ crypto & finance background who is building out our end to end infrastructure 
93/ I have been asked before so I will address. I, the person who tweets here, am an individual.

I have also made no commitments to any institutions or others re 6529.

If I say that I will do something, I can commit to it. 
94/ In other words, you still have to trust me, but you have a single point of trust which is me.

I am not an agent of some other ultimate Final Boss.

This will not be true for most institutions and people you meet in the coming years.



95/ And because I think ahead, you don't exactly have to trust me, an individual, but a trust I have set up specifically to go on this mission.

So if I have an unfortunate jet ski accident*, the show goes on.

*Though pls have police check it out carefully bc kindof fishy tbh 
96/ Now you are excited and want to help in some specific way, please get in touch:

@6529capital
@6529studio (team/artists)
@6529Labs
@6529Education
@6529help

DMs are open, but team is small so be patient. Also for sure twitter is going to freeze the accts as they warm up 
97/ You might want to give this another look in light of tonight's plan.




98/ The plan is hard, the mission is almost impossible, the odds are against us, but, isn't it more fun that way?

I'm going to go for it. I hope you will too 
99/ Because in my heart of hearts, I believe that if we do it right, "this time, we've got them"

LFG  


1/ On ETH Gas Prices

Are Ethereum gas prices expensive for buying, transporting and storing art?

My  take is that they are very inexpensive relative to what they are replacing

Is this because 6529 buys 1,000 ETH pieces? NO!

We will work it out on less expensive pieces 
2/ I just bought some 0.1ETH "gm" pieces (so about $350) and have been paying about $35 in gas (10% of the price), so 90% to the artist and 10% in distribution costs.

Is that a lot or a little ? 
3/ Well, what is my alternative in IRL?

~ For any physical object you buy at retail for $350, not just 'art' but the cool vase on your bookshelf, somewhere between 40% to 75% of the cost is 'distribution' costs - from transportation to middlemen to the cost of the store / staff 
4/ So in the first level of analysis, we are already at 1/7th to 1/4th the cost, with a much higher % going to the artist

Is that it? Well, no!

We are buying from a global marketplace.

Let's say I bought a $350 painting from India, USA, Argentina and shipped it to Europe? 
5/ There would be another $50 to $500 of shipping costs depending on size, weight, speed, insurance

Is that it? Well no!

Let's say I wanted to keep it secure & damage-free for decades

How much would that cost? Much more than the cost of the art! Here you get that *free* 
6/ Is that all? Well, no!

Let's say I wanted to take my physical art on exhibitions around the world, for thousands and tens of thousands and millions to see.

How much would that cost? 1,000x the cost of the art, that is how much. 
7/ Is that all? Well, no!

Let's say I wanted to make it composable and link it to a variety of smart contracts to do interesting things with it with friends and strangers.

How much would that cost in investment banking fees?

LOLOLOLOLOLOL.

That is how much. 
8/ So my view is that on a $350 piece of art (an affordable price for much of the western middle to upper class), you are:

Spending $35 in gas
Replacing $350 to $350K in IRL costs
Paying the artist, not the supply chain
Enjoying a global marketplace for art 
9/ For those who buying $1,000 or $10,000 or $100,000 pieces, then the economics become even better because the gas price is the same.

But OK 6529, what about the rest of the world?

Why can't they buy $1 and $5 and $25 NFT art?

This is a good point! 
10/ More good news 

There are dozens of other Level 1s (alternatives to Ethereum) or Level 2s (chains built on Ethereum) where fees will be <$1 and will support these cases.

You can do it today w/great art on Tezos and soon many chains will have improved infrastructure/art 
11/ So soon, we will have a spectrum of choices from Ethereum, where you can pay 1/10th to 1/1000th of the IRL costs for the highest level of decentralization assurances

And other chains w/ slightly lower security assurances where you pay 1/1000th to 1/1,000,000th the cost 
12/ And another plus is that it is all transparent. You see exactly what you are paying.

That is why it seems high.

The IRL costs are orders of magnitude higher but you don't see them.

The cost is hidden in the final price, but the amount the original creators get is  
13/ So I spend no time worrying about gas fees.

I know that even on my smallest purchases I am getting an amazing deal and that soon, even folks buying $1 to $25 pieces will also have a wide set of great options.

 

1/ So a friend asked me about this tweet - "doesn't this piss you off?" and I thought I would tweet my answer.

The short answer is "no"

Yes, at some level @Vince_Van_Dough / @StarryNight_Cap / @zhusu & "mystery billionaire" & 6529 are competing for certain pieces, but...

2/ ...it is much more important that our individual efforts aggregate to help the NFT art space.

It is easy to think about this in reverse.

If 6529 was the only buyer of generative art at >1,000 ETH, would the space be better or worse off? 
3/ Another lens:

In a year, do I hope that there are 30 people/funds/daos competing for these top generative pieces or just the 3 of us?

I hope that there are 30, even though it will make things harder for 6529 Museum as a permanent buyer, not seller 
4/ Another lens:

We are the only 3-4 people out of 8,000,000,000 who have ever been willing to spend more than 1,000 ETH on a piece of NFT generative art.

If we were doing statistical human rarity scores, I have more in common with this group than anyone except my parents  
5/ It is an unusual feeling to be this early, this alone.

I am 100% certain we are right, but it is strange to think that only 2-3 other people *in the whole world* who feel as strongly about this as we do.

I was very early once before in my life, but not quite this early. 
6/ So the game goes on.

I have won some rounds, @Vince_Van_Dough has won some rounds, mystery-$B-aire has won some rounds.

It is all good.

Rule #6 is that we don't run out of JPGs, and the 6529 Museum is certainly at no risk of that 






1/ So as someone who has three full Art Block Curated horizontal collections (sets), some instant reactions to this.

These are not conclusive and I reserve the right to change my mind as I process it more

2/ This set for sale was ~a floorish set with a reserve a bit above the floor.

So we should think through who is the buyer for that at Christies and why are they buying it? 
3/ First of all, I think horizontal ABC collections are a niche within a niche (gen art) within a niche (NFTs).

Right now, the collectors who care about them most I think are @VonMises14 and me. 
4/ Even a lot of AB nerds are not so into them. Their counter-case is basically concentrate on the "best" art in AB (e.g. Fidenzas, Ringers, etc).

I note this point and accept that insiders may disagree with me, but I believe horizontal views are also interesting. 
5/ So to be interested in a horizontal collection of AB Curated, one has to:
a) want NFTs
b) want generative art
c) want AB Curated
d) want all AB Curated horizontally
and
e) want it from Christies 
6/ I think this is where we come back to the fact that this is a floor set more or less.

So the buyer for this is someone who both believes a) to d) above and e) for can't click around opensea for 1 hour to put together the horizontal collection that speaks to them 
7/ I think this does not describe too many people.

I looked at (I don't actually need a 4th horizontal), but my immediate reaction was "if I wanted a 4th horizontal, I am going to pick the Singularity I want" 
8/ Now you might say "but maybe there is a TradArt buyer who wants to get into this space and wants the above"

I dunno, I think there is a ton more education and outreach needed before that happens.

And better display tech. ABC looks good BIG, really BIG, not small 
9/ I believe there is something, a big something, that people are missing on horizontal sets.

If you want to build and sell a horizontal at a premium, I think you have to *curate* it, not just buy the floor

If you just buy the floor, someone can say "I will make my own floor" 
10/ There are only 200 possible horizontal collections and in reality fewer.

It is not at all obvious to me that the majority of these should be floor sets.

If you have 200 Elevated Deconstructions to use and 9,000 squiggles, why pick a floor squiggle? 
11/ Horizontals should have a theme imho, details for another day.

tl;dr

- horizontal floors will trade at the floor and have to beat "picking your own"

- horizontals w/ good themes will be unobtainium and have big premiums

here is your alpha leak for the day  


1/ On NFTs 2030

However bullish you are on NFTs, you are wrong.

You are insufficiently bullish.

6529 has gone to the mountaintop and there is almost nothing in life that 6529 is as sure of as this 
2/ First, the usual anti-FOMO advice.

The rest of this thread is giga-bull NFTs in general as a technology.

This does not mean that you should ape in the PFP collection "Silver Snails". Most individual NFTs are heading to zero.

Now back to the main event 
3/ 6529 first came across BTC in 2011-2012 and ignored it.

It was not until August 2013 in my apartment in NYC when I actually engaged, read the white paper, downloaded a node, bought a BTC and sent $20 of BTC across the world instantly. 
4/ It was an instant teleport to the future. But a very broad expansive future

Solving the Byzantine General's problem allowing for decentralized consensus is not a discovery that leads only to permissionless wire transfers or even digital gold or even uncensorable payments 
5/ All of those things are super important and the OG Bitcoin decentralization maxis with their full nodes and paper wallets are providing an invaluable public service, keeping a global independent payment rail open and running.

They are sentries on our societal frontier 
6/ But that is not the end of it. That is the beginning of it.

Modern society runs on databases that are run by TTPs (Trusted Third Parties).

Where are these TTPs? They are literally everywhere. 
7/ Citibank. Google. Facebook. New York City. Hilton. Delta. The Olive Garden. Time Warner Cable. Uber. Amazon. The Social Security Administration. Your employer. Your pension fund administrator. The IRS. The NSA. 
8/ For modern society to function at current scale and for *you* to function in it - to travel, to earn money, to vote, to get a cab, to eat, to not be jailed, requires thousands of databases to track you.

It is not evil, it is a function of "this is the only way we could do it" 
9/ In that context, the TTP is who decides, in practice, your rights, from trivial to important.

From if your hotel reservation is cancelled to whether you can wire more than $100K to your crypto-exchange in a day to whether you are allowed to vote in the Presidential election 
10/ We take it for granted, because it has faded in the background of our lives, but databases run by TTPs rule everything around us.

Memes are the apex object of society, but the architecture and machinery of society in 2021 is an Oracle or Amazon database 
11/ OK, so what? What is the big deal with TTPs?

There is a micro and macro problem with modern TTPs

The micro problem is that they trend to being anti-competitive. Computers lead to economics of scale in data and infrastructure so firms tend to grow 
12/ And as they grow they build a huge installed base of data and data infrastructure that is the main competitive barrier to entry in any modern business.

This is why the antitrust regulators know there is something problematic with FAANG, but can't find it 
13/ The answer isn't to force them to lower prices (anyway a lot of their products are free) or to try and tell them which products they are allowed to build or not.

These are 19th century solutions to a 21st century problem. 
14/ If 6529 was ever going to be a regulator and had to solve things in the traditional way, there is a simple solution to these issues.

Force companies and governmental agencies to provide first class access to the underlying data.

The market will solve the rest 
15/ The macro problem with TTPs and the increasingly centralization they provide is that are increasingly creating easy chokeholds to hijack the whole of society.

People have a hard time thinking about this in abstract terms so we need to do examples 
16/ Imagine taxis 10 years ago. A fully decentralized industry that knew effectively nothing about their customers.

Uber was a revolution and really convenient, but...

A future dictator can trivially ban 6529 from Uber/Lfyt/etc, but mission impossible stopping him from a taxi 
17/ The same thing applies to Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Microsoft.

They are amazing businesses and I use their products daily. They have brought tens of trillions of dollars of utility into our lives.

But, they can be hijacked by people with guns 
18/ 6529 thinks that state worries too much about day to day risks and not enough about existential risks.

Day-to-day risks: crime, drugs, money laundering, tax evasion, terrorism

Existential risks: dictators 
19/ I'm sure there was crime and tax evasion in pre-Hitler Germany and in pre-Stalin Russia and in pre-Mao China.

And none of these things caused 1% of the deaths, economics and cultural destruction that was caused by hijacking the machinery of the state 
20/ "Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety"

Is one of the most important things ever written on these matters 
21/ It is of course important to try to reduce day to day societal ills. 6529 is not in favor of crime.

But these efforts are double-edged swords when they open the door for the edge risk of someone hijacking the whole system 
22/ 6529 is worried that the world is sleepwalking into high centralized systems with literally nobody pushing the other side of the equation.

China is already over the transom. And sadly, the USA and EU are heading in the same direction 
23/ So pause and recap:

a) BTC solved decentralized consensus
b) Centralized consensus is everywhere
c) TTPs cause micro problems (anti-competitive) and macro problems (present existential risks)

What does any of this have to do with JPGs? 
24/ Starting 2013, 6529 has been harassing everyone he can find (including himself) that "we can now build decentralized social systems"

And yet, every year since then, 6529 has been quite disappointed at what decentralized systems we have built 
25/ The reason has been that crypto has been highly financialized so:

a) the infrastructure has become centralized (exchanges, etc)

b) tons of good ideas are securities violations in the USA, including many ideas 6529 would have done 
26/ So what do our JPGs have to do with this?

a) They are decentralized
b) They are constitutionally protected free speech
c) They can represent the nuance of the world which is non-fungible, not fungible
d) They can be used to build decentralized social organizations 
27/ Let me give you a preview of where we are headed

28/ The addressable market for NFTs is not "a subset of the art market", but, in the first phase, all societal intangibles.

These represent tens of trillions of value and are the coordinating mechanism of society. 
29/ It is obvious that NFTs are the "internet moment" for art

The art establishment is going to get flippened because it is behaving exactly as conventionally as any other incumbent.

It is amusing to see in this "creative" and "counter-cultural" field 
30/ But one massive mistake people make, including some of my best friends in crypto, including 2011 to 2013 crypto OGs is thinking that the scope of NFTs is "art"

Art is just a subset of societal intangibles. The cutting edge subset, but a subset 
31/ After they flippen art, NFTs will start eating brands, they will start eating culture, they will start creating decentralized alternatives to centralized orgs.

Are the Bored Apes a silly collectible are are they a decentralized competitor to Supreme?


32/ So that will be the next phase, NFTs will be used by companies and decentralized organizations to organize their communities.

Unlike customer databases, they are public, they are composable, they are uncensorable.

They solve both the micro and the macro problem with TTPs 
33/ If I want to go provide some service to the Bored Ape Yacht Club community, I do not have to ask permission of Yuga Labs. I can just airdrop to the holders or use BAYCs as a mint pass.

This solves the micro problem with TTPs, no antitrust regulators needed 
34/ On the macro side, if I were a potential dictator, same problem.

I cannot easily freeze the movement of BAYCs because they run on Ethereum, not in the customer database of Yuga Labs.

It is a vastly more difficult and impractical problem to chase down everyone individually 
35/ And this is the intermediate stage.

In time our metaverse of persistent digital objects will become more and more real until it becomes our default reality.

This will also run on NFTs and will be our default reality.

Critical to be decentralized 
36/ Then comes that stuff that is less interesting conceptually to 6529. Will we bring movie tickets, vacation rentals, hotel reservations, home sales and so on to NFTs?

Yes, of course and it will be good for market efficiency 
37/ But all off-chain assets will require a trusted third party linkage to come on-chain.

So these bringing your Cancun rental on-chain will solve economic efficiency problems in the normal way but not any fundamental problems of liberty and societal organization 
38/ BTW all of this points to where the next angle of system attack will be on crypto and that is non-custodial wallets.

Both the USA and the EU are floating different attacks on non-custodial wallets.

This is the ONLY regulatory battle we MUST win 
39/ We can concede everything else and still win.

Whether DeFi governance token X is a security? Who cares.

We simply need to maintain right to hold crypto directly, not in a TTP, and transact reasonably (without insane recordkeeping requirements) 
40/ If we can preserve this (which is not a 'won' fight, it is a fight that has just begun -- @coincenter and @NeerajKA and @twobitidiot throw EVERYTHING at this specific topic), then JPGs can take us the rest of the way to Valhalla. 
41/ We can absolutely organize decentralized orgs with JPGs without violating any securities laws.

And if we can do it, then the magic of network, of the collective intelligence of humanity will take us the rest of the way 
42/ This what 6529 is here for.

I like art and I like making frens and I like "ooh and aahing" over beautiful art and I like it when the ETH number of my NFT holdings goes up.

But I like those things in a normal way, like I like going to a nice dinner 
43/ The reason that 6529 is laser-focused right now is that there is a narrow window, where we can bend the arc of history, where we can change the path of world history

I have not felt this way since 2013 when 6529 played a small role in BTC's development into what it is 
45/ This is enough for today. Read this. Absorb it. Read it again.

This is the underlying theory. Take a day or two to digest it.

Go back to the other threads. Read them again.

And in couple of days, I will explain my plan.

1/ my first "warhol" was a $20 poster in my first apartment in NYC decades ago. that and a Lichtenstein poster. and my own photos on the walls.


2/ And one of my best dates in my early years in NYC was some type of gala at the MOMA.

I wore a tux, she a red dress, we got drunk and we stared at red tomato soup cans 
3/ Once I had some money, I searched for a tomato soup can for years, but market is not liquid, not transparent.

One day I happened to see one. It was out of budget. I balked. Next day I went back. Balked again. Next day went back. 
4/ I did not have enough cash to justify it. But I had enough BTC. But I never sell BTC.

Life is short and then you die frens.

That is why I own a soup can. You aren't taking cash, stocks, BTC or ETH with you. Live your dreams too

WAGMI. 


1/ I have no idea why, but for the last couple of days I have had this on auto-repeat.

[Editor note: 6529 will shortly return to 83-tweet long tweetstorms about NFTs. We have no idea what this is about. We checked. He is definitely not crying]


2/ Ignore the editor. He is a nerd.

Also the first tweet was not totally accurate.

There was a new Tesla software update yesterday for "immersive sound" and this was the 1st song I heard on the radio and the speakers sounded great and now I can't stop playing it. 
3/ Also we are awash in visual goodies in NFTs.

We need more phat beats in NFTs. Many more.


Brendon Urie GIF - Brendon Urie Bden - Discover & Share GIFs
Click to view the GIF
4/ Also, insta-poll

Dancer above. Whose alt account is it? 
lol wrong link. here is the correct one:



1/ Rights Management Project

Hello 6529 fam, we need to make a rights template builder.

One thing I have noticed in the last 3 days is that a lot of artists and collectors are confused about what they are buying or selling even in the 'normal' model 
2/ Here is how I think it could work

We need a website, easy to use, like this

creativecommons.org/share-your-wor

Where you can "build a license" from as restrictive to as open as you like, but fine-tuned to NFTs 

Share your work - Creative Commons
Use Creative Commons tools to help share your work. Our free, easy-to-use copyright licenses provide a simple, standardized way to give your permission to share and use your creative work on conditio
https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/
3/ Once you have built your license, it creates a machine and human readable version of the license.

Easy mode is link it in the metadata of your NFT
Better mode is you link in the metadata and publish to Arweave and/or IPFS so that it is as decentralized as your NFT 
4/ This is the right way to do it, so the license transports along with the NFT.

The license should be both human readable but also machine readable so various services can decide how to compose or not with the NFT.

It will also work with any exchange this way. 
5/ I don't think this is a huge effort. We need someone legal expertise in copyright law relating to art. Artists and @awrigh01 @6529Guardian and @thenftattorney do you have ideas?

We need a front-end developer, a bit of UX design and IFPS/Arweave expertise 
6/ I would be willing to contribute some brain cycles and some ETH to pay people as needed. I hope other collectors and artists will help also, along with @opensea @SuperRare @withFND @KnownOrigin_io who should be all over this.

This should be a decentralized industry standard 
7/ We can start with a version that works under US copyright law because that is the largest market so far, but once it is built, I don't see any reason why we couldn't port it to country by country versions 
8/ Thoughts below please? 



1/ First thoughts about 'open source' NFT minting experiment.

I think the first point is that it is just a tool in the toolkit, a tool to use when appropriate.

An undifferentiated collection or photograph won't change just because of a more open license 
2/ The one usage case in which it absolutely makes sense is for s that have been stolen, gone viral

This is like the meme NFTs that were minted a few weeks or months ago

A scenario like this allows the artist to reclaim their heritage and ownership

We will see what else 
3/ Now let's talk about what norms we should emerge around these s. You don't *have* do these things, but it is better if you do.

First, if you want a print, go to the artist first and see if they are interested. Why wouldn't you? 
4/ If you are going to use it for big commercial purposes (I personally think this is highly unlikely because s are so specific), then go collaborate with the artist also.

Again, you don't have to, but why wouldn't you. If it is big commercial use, you have the budget 
5/ If you are going to do a cool project that perhaps could be better with the artist's participation, reach out to them to see they want to participate artistically and economically.

I think the project will be more successful with the artist involved. 
6/ One of my giga-brain views on this is that even if s are 'open', the authenticity of collaborating with the artist will give extra value

So what I hope for this initiative is that those without budget get free art and those with are economically incented to work w/artist 
7/ More as we think this through! 


1/ On NFT Rights Experiments

I am setting up a thread of threads to archive these threads because they are about to get lost in my feed.

We started here with an experiment based on @cathsimard_ 's experiment. Spirited debate ensued.



2/ Then I messed up the thread linkages so adding them back here



3/ Then another thread on this topic



4/ Then we did a poll to figure out what was really going on


5/ Then we discussed the poll a little bit



6/ Then @delfabz seized the memes of production and open-sourced a genesis piece


7/ Then @TS446photo did the same


8/ Then my consolidated view after a weekend of, well, spirited debate



9/ And now an absolute explosion of experiments of CC0 licensed works that we are tracking here





New Photography Coming out with CC0 Licenses 

There is an absolute massive set of experiments incoming.

I can't track them all or manage all my auctions, so 6529 fam let's track them here and send some to auction!

CC: @cathsimard_ 
This is incredible from @HollowxSun. Someone must kick this off!!!




https://foundation.app/@HollowSun/between-two-worlds-91762
This one from @p0hleroid


https://knownorigin.io/gallery/2339000-new-beginnings
Volcanic eruptions from @kevinpagesnft




https://foundation.app/@kevinpages/the-awakening-91745
Put more in the thread below! 
Another one is live


Another one is live




https://foundation.app/@dipanjanp/the-night-crown-91997


1/ Given all the NFT photography talk the last days, it might be fun to share the very much "Work-in-Progress" 6529 Photo Gallery

Unlike generative art, where my thesis is clear, I think we are in a more exploratory stage in photography


Fully immersive experiences for your digital assets (NFTs)
A digital world for creators, oncyber is the easiest way for artists and collectors to show their digital assets (NFTs) in fully immersive experiences (3D/VR), for free.
https://oncyber.io/6529photobeta
2/ Some of the artists in the gallery highlighted below. Apologies in advance if I miss anyone or mix something up, going fast here.

@chimodu

3/ @justinaversano and Twin Flames

3/ @DrifterShoots terrifying us all

4/ @dave_krugman and Drive

5/ @noealz

6/ @dipanjan_photos


7/ @BagerArt

8/ @klepikovadaria @MerrWatson and @PHLYs

9/ @JanWaider


10/ @F_zhiani

11/ @F_zhiani again. Those hands...

12/ @kathrinfederer and those sheep and @NamrataV01 and her trains

13/ @SquareJordan & @keyvangallery

14/ @teexels


15/ @HollowxSun

16/ @kevinpagesnft & @hijackharding

17/ @TokyoLuv & @aaronrferguson &, umm, @larvalabs

18/ @oveck

19/ @halecar2 and Carpoolers

20/ @klepikovadaria again

21/ @korbinian_vogt

22/ and @aylaelmoussa

23/ As you can see, there are still blank walls in the gallery. We are just getting started in NFT photography and I am feeling my way through here.

There are projects that have community and there are projects with artistic qualities and there is also just a lot of fun 
24/ The other observation I have had building this gallery and spending time in it is how much fun I have had.

Imagine trying to fade this.

 thinking that this is not a better way to share your amazing art with frens around the world

 
25/ Error correction (I knew there was something I missed)

@RedDeadPanda's Density added

26/ Back to @DrifterShoots, this is the video of how he made the shoot that is in the gallery. Hold on to your couch very right


27/ Well Natalie looks just bad-ass here doesn't she @babak_fatholahi?

28/ As does Enthroned, don't you think @taylortresca?

29/ No real surprise that this looks great @TS446photo

30/ So @MattDoogue's extraordinary work is now sailing to greatness in the, umm, wildlife section!

31/ And Trophies from @jellyfire1 filling in the other side with another iconic .

31/ Here is the alien Soul Plantation by @MSoulwax - looks great

32/ And @dharnidh is opening up a new wall. Go read the story of the amazing mission






1/ OK, last NFT photography thread this weekend to try to consolidate a bit my thoughts on what we discussed.

I think it is important for me to share first my view of the medium-term future of photography NFTs because I think it makes a lot of the rest more clear 
2/ My general view of photography NFTs circa 2025 is:

- Infinite collections
- Infinite artists (pros and advanced amateurs)
- Infinite very decent photography NFTs
- Average selling price: 0.00 ETH
- Average licensing revenue: $0.00
- Average print sales: Close to zero 
3/ Photography already has tremendous supply.

The reason micro-stock sites exist is not because corporations are evil or something strange like that.

It is because there are an awful lot of pretty decent photographers who enjoy photography and will accept the marginal income 
4/ This is going to be accelerated with NFTs.

For the first time, everyone, pro or amateur, in whatever country in the world, will have access to the exact same distribution and monetization platform.

And from countries where 1ETH is an annual salary for many... 
5/ So if, as a photographer, your implicit strategy is that there is going to be some type of global floor on, I dunno, prices of good landscape photographs of beaches, I regret to inform you that this is not a good business strategy.

You have to think harder than this 
6/ The easiest thing for 6529 to do is to just send hopium into my feed. I already collect a lot so I obviously support artists.

If I just say "LFG, all artists are GMI!" then I will get a lot of likes and nice looking  emojis in return 
7/ But this would be a lie and 6529 does not lie, even in exchange for cool emojis 
8/ If you are in NFT photography *today*, congratulations you are super early and you have a chance to make it!

But you have to have a plan to make it and that plan is not "but my prints are going to be very valuable when 1,000,000 other photographers onboard" 
9/ My base level recommendation for an emerging photographer today in the NFT space is "build 1,000 true fans".

You can read about it here and it still stands 1000%.

This is a default great strategy.



10/ Note that the thread says "for emerging photographers"

If you are already a famous, awarding-winning, well-compensated or otherwise elite photographer, this thread is not for you.

you have already made it and don't need my advice 
11/ Now what I have been trying to say all weekend is beyond "1,000 true fans" there may be another strategy to experiment with and that strategy is "use the network for you, not against you"

@punk4156 said the most powerful 3 words in NFTs "provenance not copyright" 
12/ This does not mean we want your copyrights. What it means is that for the first time we know with certainty who the owner of a digital art good actually is.

In which case, there is always the OG token holder and the viral stuff is often just marketing for the token 
13/ When I first rolled on twitter, a lot of people tried to "Right Click Save As" punk 6529.

I serenely told them "go right ahead" because there is no actual question who owns this punk and if you want to do unpaid marketing for me, be my guest 
14/ Rights Models:
a) Artist keeps all rights: 99.9999999% of NFTs
b) Commercial rights shared with collector
c) Commercial rights to collector
d) Non-commercial rights to world
e) All rights to world

There are nuances but these are the big buckets 
15/ So far in NFTs, we have seen:

- overwhelmingly type a
- A bit of type b, with BAYC and Meebits
- The first large type e) with @cathsimard_ and @gmoneyNFT leading the charge 
16/ I try to imagine if I were the business manager for an emerging NFT photographer. Here is what I conclude:

a) 99% of cases the photographer would make more money 
b) I would aim for 1,000 true fans
c) I would do some careful experiments w/rights 
17/ I am not saying abandon model a). Right now it is the base model that everyone understands.

But you likely have hundreds or thousand of photographs.

Why not experiment with different models w/ a couple & particularly e) that gets the network maybe working for you 
18/ Releasing work under a Creative Commons 0 license is nothing new in the world.

The new part is releasing under a Creative Commons 0 license and having 6529 or @gmoneyNFT pay you to do so! 
19/ The way I analyze the proposition it is the following:

Donate a work to the world 
Get paid 
If you get lucky, get some marketing* 

* Not a guarantee, but whatever, you were paid for this work. 
20/ I also think this is an excellent use of crowd purchases.

I might only have the budget for 1ETH or 5ETH or 10ETH to push this forward.

But if there is an important meme or photo we want to set free and still respect the artist, we can group buy it and set it free! 
21/ To summarize:
a) You need a plan
b) There are many different types of plans
c) You should pick the right plan for you
d) Testing different rights for different photos can be part of your plan (it is just a tool in your toolbox, nothing more than that) 
22/ And of course, I  you, I  art, I  photography, I want all of you to make it



LFG! 


1/ Hyper-elite Chromie Squiggles resetting to their proper market price.


2/ If only there was some way to have known about this




3/ Makes that XCOPY sale the steal of the month btw


4/ Exactly 2 months ago, out of 8 billion people on planet earth there was only 1 person who was willing to bet $200K ish that hyper elite squiggles were worth that type of money.




1/ OK so we have early poll results but with n=180, the final answer won't change much

First thing, apparently 14% of photographers are making hundreds of thousands per year in licensing revenue (I figure they must have at least 100 'good' photos).

They are OK, let' move on

2/ 63% of the photographers around here are earning <$1/year/photograph from commercial rights.

Which means 1ETH represents 3000+ years of commercial rights.

Another 16% are <$100 so 1ETH represents 30+ years of commercial rights 
3/ So to put the experiment in another context, I am saying:

a) give one photo open-source to the world, to use, remix, maybe get your name out there. Pick whatever one you want

b) For 80% of you, I will compensate you 30 to 3,000 years worth of 'lost earnings' from that photo 
4/ I don't want your commercial photography rights for the same reason that you can't monetize them.

They are mostly unmonetizable

So at least experiment with remix and viral culture for some pieces to see if you can drive engagement

It may work & if it doesn't, no big loss! 


1/ So my experiment on 'would you open source 1 piece from your collection' is going very well, confirming that a large percentage of NFT photographers have no idea why NFT collectors are collecting their work

Let's work through a specific example 
2/ Yesterday, I collected this amazing photograph from @oveck for 8.5ETH (~$25,000)

As with all art, the default position is that @oveck holds the copyright and associated rights.


3/ OK, so @oveck has those. What can @oveck use them for?

Well I guess could make prints and sell them to others.

OK, that is fine, but I am net bearish prints and net bullish NFTs in terms of growth in the coming years. 
4/ Also, if there is a 1/1 NFT and a 1/1 print, which is the original?

I think some of you would like to say "both, different mediums" and this is of course your right.

My gut is however that you are better off assigning originality to the NFT. Why? 
5/ Because the capital formation and distribution of NFTs is so vastly superior to print/galleries that for the same artist, same piece, I believe the NFTs will end up selling for multiples of what the prints will sell for.

So you should lean into it and push the NFT IMHO 
6/ What else can you do with the commercial rights?

a) put it on a stock photo site? lame and counterproductive

b) License it for an ad? Is this type of work really a great fit for an ad? It is so specific

c) Make a coffee mug line? 
7/ My view is that even for an exceptional NFT photo like @oveck that the value that will accrue to the NFT that can be displayed perfectly, in perfect condition, in all types of virtual spaces will vastly exceed the value of the prints, the stock photo sites, the ad licenses. 
8/ Bonus question: I buy a print from @oveck.

The print is lost is the mail. Is the piece gone?
I send the NFT to a burn address. Is the piece gone?

Which one matters in our digital world? 


12/ The default approach for all art is that rights rest with the artist.

You do not as a collector get the commercial rights.

That is true for photography, gen art and 1/1s and everything 
13/ My specific thesis is not that your rights are worth exactly 1ETH but that you are probably overvaluing the 'commercial rights' vs the NFT.

And this is true if you are in the 0.1, 1, 10 or 100ETH range 
14/ I consider this relatively easier in photography because photography is relatively high volume output for most artists (I am flooded w collections) so you can test different models "not with your grails"

Save your grails for traditional approach or sell rights super high 
15/ But what I am trying to get across is that the value is in the NFT and in the community, not in the right to make prints or put them on stock photo sites (for most photographers, not for all, but for most).

So people should run experiments. 
16/ Why did I am offering 1 ETH not 100ETH? Because I am making an open-ended commitment to buy 5 items in feed regardless if I see anything I like.

I am happy to look at any other items, at any other price, with no commitment on my side. 
17/ OK, off to dinner.

Feel free to yell at me in my feed, I expected this, this is why I raised the topic.

Reminder:
1) You open-source 1 of your s to everyone
2) I pay you 1ETH to do it (ppl do it on wikimedia all day long for free, frens)
3) Only if you want

 
18/ Last one. Been DMing with @halecar2. He thinks some artists are concerned that collectors will then start negotiating rights on 'expensive NFTs'.

I am more sanguine about this. We collectors all collect from main platforms with standard rights.

And.. 
19/ ...if the whole field of NFT photography collapses because 6529:

- spends 300ETH on regular model
- spends 5 ETH on open-source model

Well, then the system was going to collapse anyway and so you really need to think of new ideas.

I am more optimistic about this medium. 
20/ Real last post before dinner.

Let's walk though this logic.

You are an unknown photographer, you enter this experiment, you open-source an , I pay you 1 ETH for this 
21/ Then, accordingly to my feed, DISASTER strikes and Coca-Cola uses it for their Super Bowl ad and does not pay you (they would pay in practice to be covered but whatever).

In how many days, will you be rich from your next NFT drop and will it be more than 1 day? 
22/  New Twist To The Experiment 

A lot of people are getting overly stuck on if 1ETH is the right price for their work which is of course not at all the point.

So I will accept also entries where you price your work at whatever you think the right price is 
23/ In other words, I still commit to buying 5 pieces at 1 ETH, but also open to proposals for full open-sourcing of your piece at whatever price you think it is fair. I have collected from 0.1 ETH to 100ETH so the whole range is fine.

I don't commit to buying but you can pitch 
24/ But how should you value the open-sourcing rights?

Ah, this is the question I want you to think about.

Think about similar pieces. How much have you made from prints, licensing, stock photos across all those pieces.

Average it, multiply x 2 and that is the price 
25/ BTW, the formula above is the *worst case scenario* for this. In the highly unlikely case your piece goes viral from open-sourcing, most people will still want to buy directly from you.

But let's ignore that, let's assume you lose all other revenue from that piece 
26/ So the formula imho is for pieces of similar quality in your work/catalog:

a) Your NFT price +
b) [Your average commercial rights earned] x 2 
27/ I hope with this formula nobody is going to complain that I am not supporting artists by asking them to potentially consider making more money that they usually make.

For most artists, most pieces, part b) above is less than you think and the rest don't need my advice 


1/  Attention NFT Photographers 

I think you are being too conservative in your transition to NFT-first value and I'm willing to do my part to help.

Too much concern about selling prints in a digital world, not enough experimentation with different rights models 
2/ The shining exception to this is @cathsimard_ and her Free Hawaii Project where upon sale the rights were made available to the whole world


 Licence  #FREEHAWAIIPHOTO
3/ This is the most extreme model (but super interesting and thanks to @gmoneyNFT this experiment is a shining success).

There are other models: shared commercial rights with collector, assigned commercial rights to collector, not worrying about the prints, etc 
4/ As we have discussed before, I am 100x more interested in high resolution NFTs that will look good in the @oncyber_io of 2030 than a physical print.

I have more virtual gallery space than physical and this will happen to *everyone* in coming years as they collect more & more 
5/ Anyway, the experiment I will commit to buying 5 photography NFTs at 1ETH so long as they are released on the @cathsimard_ model above.

I have discussed with @cathsimard_ and she is supportive

Obviously this is a price that makes sense for emerging photographers 
6/ The next steps:
a) shill a photography NFT that you are willing to release under this license in this thread
b) in a couple of days we will pick
c) we/you/together/fam can figure out what adjustments the license might need in your country

Have fun! 
7/ I guess I should add:

a) if you are not an NFT photographer retweet to your NFT photographer frens

b) Might do other experiments in future w/ other rights models

This is though the @cathsimard_ @gmoneyNFT gone global version! 
8/ Adding to the thread


9/ Exactly as expected, a lot of people are yelling at me, which is why I am running this experiment.

Let's state some master of the obvious items. 
10/ 1st if the market price for your NFTs + commercial rights is above 1ETH, obviously don't enter the experiment.

BTW, if this is true, you are already elite.

There are many collections languishing at 0.2ETH on opensea and it is going to get worse, not better. 
11/ Do I believe the top-end for rights for photographs is 1ETH? LOL

I have spent up to 100ETH on individual photographs with no rights whatsoever.

But NFTs that sell for 1ETH to 100ETH are global super-elite. 0.0001% of NFTs my frens 
Relinking thread (I am a bad dinner guest these days)





1/ I just had a very nice time looking through @F_zhiani's classic minimalist B&W landscape photography collection

I love this type of austere photography (personal taste ofc)

I picked up 7 pieces & then had to stop


https://opensea.io/collection/minimal-bnw
2/ Winter Life


https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/78341721973965228116183551140974642699536781681267417625597899861991364755457
3/ Hands


https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/78341721973965228116183551140974642699536781681267417625597899838901620572161
3/ Endless Road


https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/78341721973965228116183551140974642699536781681267417625597899867488922894337
4/ Waves


https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/78341721973965228116183551140974642699536781681267417625597899846598201966593
5/ Persistence


https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/78341721973965228116183551140974642699536781681267417625597899865289899638785
6/ Neglect


https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/78341721973965228116183551140974642699536781681267417625597899850996248477697
7/ Negotiate


https://opensea.io/assets/0x495f947276749ce646f68ac8c248420045cb7b5e/78341721973965228116183551140974642699536781681267417625597899830105527549953
8/ As always, not financial advice and a whole thread about how much *not* financial advice this is that you should read if u r FOMOing

I collect photography like this quite literally because I like it and no other reason.

Well-done @F_zhiani! 

1/ Mini-thread

My hypothesis

The biggest current NFT collections are going to be bigger than all but a handful of any NFT collections that are going to be put together by the "TradArt" collectors incoming.

Why? 
2/ There are multiple collections with market value today of $50M to $100M. Some of them even more maybe.

But for the purposes of this example, let's use $50M to $100M as a range.

How many TradArt billionaires are going to be ready to put $50M to $100M into NFTs today? 
3/ My guess is "not very many". Keep in mind that most billionaires are illiquid. When you read that XYZ is worth $2B or $5B or $10B, do not imagine that this money is sitting in a bank account.

It is in stocks, bonds, partnership interests in funds, stock of private companies 
3/ Let's say someone is worth $1B to take an 'entry level' billionaire and let's further assume they are 10% liquid (optimistic).

That is $100M. Will that person put $50M to $100M (50% to 100% of their liquidity) into NFTs?

LOL of course not, unless giga-ape (very unlikely) 
4/ Even for a $5B-aire, with a few hundred millions of liquidity, chadding $100M of cold hard cash into JPGs in Sept 2021, well that is a bold call

Given that most are, umm, more mature in years, it is asking a mega mental leap to vaporize $100M of IRL wealth into JPGs 
5/ Well, ok 6529, in a year it will be more validated and they will have an easier time doing so.

Sure, that is true. But also the prices might be up 2x or 5x (not financial advice obviously, just an example).

At which point you are asking the $1B-aire to invest $200M to $500M 
6/ So my hot take here is that a substantial percentage of the mega OG collections have already been built by individuals and DAOs.

TradArt will add X additional collections, but it is not like they will add 95% of the future collections. Maybe 30-50%. 
7/ Will TradArt buy individual expensive pieces? Yes

Will a super-billionaire put together a $200M collection? Yes

Will some nation-state make a $1B collection? Yes

But a much larger % than most think of the mega collections that will be made are already in existence today 
8/ This thought did not occur to me until last week and it was trigged by a throw-away comment by @ac_collecting, but I think it is right.

Everyone is very excited about TradArt showing up and we welcome them to come.

But a lot of the major NFT stewards will be crypto-native 
9/ We are already seeing that in hyper elite pieces - aliens, apes, grail fidenzas, grail squiggles, etc.

Very few are trading because buyers have not caught up with seller price expectations.

Multiple big offers have been rejected.

What will happen next? 
10/ Well either the offers will go up and the grail end will re-rate or the buyers with their current buying budget will go down the spectrum a tiny bit and go for super-grails, not hyper-grails which *will* trade for these types of bids. 
11/ This is the bull market case ofc.

Perhaps crypto and NFTs nuke and there are big buying opportunities for TradArt to swoop in.

But I don't think this is how it will go, because if it nukes, they will get more cautious, not less cautious and will miss again.  
11/ It is a bullish tweetstorm about the high end of the market.

I am saying TradArt will not be able to afford all your bags, just a few 


12/ I think this below is the key part.

Crypto-native folks are going to be comfortable putting a much higher % of their net worth in NFT than "30 years collecting TradArt collector"




1/ Same buyer for both. I don't think you need a PhD in rocket science to understand what is going on.

This is another Chromie Squiggle vertical collection being built in front of our eyes.

It is, as I tweeted a few days ago, one of the smartest structured rarity plays in AB

2/ As always we need to look at both demand and supply.

Demand: Is it an appealing concept for a museum or collector to be able show each type of the iconic, first AB project?

I consider it one of the most obvious "yes-es" in on-chain generative art 
3/ How about supply?

There are a theoretical 20 sets that can be built but many of those are vaulted already. I'll update my table later and post it, it is a mix of diamond hands and AB super-gurus (or both)

Won't be more than a handful of these ever built from today onward 
4/ Congratulations to buyer, @jdh and ShroomDaddy for very successful and mutually beneficial NFT Commerce

 

1/ On NFA (Not Financial Advice)

I am making this thread so I can refer back to it because more and more people are copy-trading me in their purchases

 Key message: Do not assume that anything I buy or tweet is a good investment or 'financial advice' 
2/ As we have discussed before, 6529 is on a mission-based journey and that mission is not necessarily to optimize return on investment on NFTs

So the first thing you should know is that, in most cases, I am not buying NFTs because I plan to sell them at a higher price 
3/ If an NFT I buy makes sense for the 6529 mission and is never liquid again, that is fine for me.

Related: I am buying for the 6529 Museum.

Often I am not buying NFTs that are financially optimal in isolation but match a theme in the Museum 
4/ I am in Level 4 / Level 5, so I can afford for all 6529 NFTs to go to zero and nothing will change about my life.

I will have the same house, car, vacation, family, trips, job and so on

6529 has survived in crypto since 2013 by isolating IRL from crypto this way 
5/ So the key mega-point is that if I buy an NFT, it does NOT mean:

a) you should buy it
b) it is a good investment
c) it is right for you
d) you should FOMO

DO NOT FOMO beyond your financial capacity. We are not going to run out of JPGs 
6/ I have noticed that plenty of people are now tracking my wallet, so whether I tweet or not, people are going to copy-trade me (even though they should not necessarily do so).

So when I have time to, I will sometimes tweet about what I am doing to at explain my logic 
7/ One category of buys and tweets are mega-grails, of 100ETH, 500ETH, 1000ETH and so on

These don't worry me so much because the people who can FOMO into a 500ETH squiggle do not need financial advice from me anyway and almost certainly have more money than me.

Good luck s 
8/ The other category of tweets that I have really enjoyed recently are under-looked photography collections.

These are often 0.1 to .2ETH type collections.

You should know that I am buying those with zero expectation of being able to resell or that I will have liquidity 
9/ At 6529's scale, 0.2ETH pieces can bought purely because I like them and because want more of them to exist in the world.

And because I have a bigger Twitter feed than a typical unknown photographer I give the world a chance to decide if they also feel the same. 
10/ For many of these photographers, selling 25 pieces at 0.1ETH might be the difference between if they can continue their work, if they can do the next project, if they can make the next collection.

It is life-changing, career-changing amounts of money in some cases 
11/ Allowing someone w/ a unique vision or style to find their first 10, then 100, then 1,000 true fans is one of the awesome outcomes of NFTs so I will do my part to help when possible

It is correcting an IRL distribution/market breakdown where the artist can't find their fans! 
12/ Now, more abstract points.

For important pieces, for important collections, for big buys I think it is a positive for large collectors to explain their logic and explain their intentions.

It is good for artists, collections and markets and people should do it more 
13/ For now I am still buying generally from the 6529.eth main wallet, particularly large buys.

Being front-run has not yet become a problem so I will stick with this for now.

In the future that may change. 
14/ There are some pieces that might be bought by other wallets bc my IRL obligations are not consistent with tracking a bunch of auctions, mints, etc.

So I've asked others to help with this type of thing

When they make it home to the main wallet, I will share the good news 
15/ So that is it for now:

I want to reemphasize that you should only: a) buy what you like, b) with money you can afford to lose.

FOMO is both real in this space (happens to everyone) but keep in mind how many other cool JPGs are incoming and chill  
16/ I think most people know this, but for the n00bs.

Increasingly what you see in my wallet on OpenSea are *not* pieces that I have collected but instead spam to my wallet, so you can't even copy trade that way.

Basically if it was a transfer, not a buy, 95% it is spam 
17/ Closing this thread.

It is hard to imagine a worse system for managing KYC than the current system of disclosing oodles and oodles of personal information (and photos) to the customer service reps of many different organizations 
6529 has a significant IRL job. I have to do this weekly +/-.

It is the dumbest thing in the world, as if there were not 100 better ways to confirm my residency / identity than sending utility bills (home address), ID numbers, photos etc to hundreds of people / year 
To take the dumbest example, confirming that you are a resident of country X is a different question than "what is your home address and how many kwh of electricity or BTUs of gas you use"

The fin svcs firms need the former, not the latter 
6529 had to certify a document today so feeling especially amazed at the IRL process.

If crypto people proposed this as a new system of trust, we would be laughed out of the room.

Every single step is trivially hackable. It is just social convention, nothing more. 


1/ This is 100% correct. The first phase of this were broad horizontal self-booted up communities like BTC and ETH.

And more of these will emerge too.

But (and?)...

2/ ...what we are seeing with ERC-721 and NFTs is the opportunity to represent communities with higher resolution directly on chain.

One of the reasons for tension sometimes within BTC or ETH, fork wars etc is, in effect, battles about what the community is, what it represents 
3/ I believe in NFTs we will see smaller, tighter, more vertical communities with roles more finely represented.

And forks are much easier to manage. We can make more JPGs trivially without risking network security 
4/ At the end, whether it is tokens, metaverse land, IRL land or anything else, it all comes down to people, not technology.

People are the A to Z of everything of value in life and those communities and memes that gather and bind people best are the winners 


1/ On Metaverse Land

This is a very short thread, but something that has been bothering me since the spring and I think I now have an initial point of view on it

6529 does not yet own any metaverse land (decentraland, sonmium, etc) bc I had some concerns I had to work through 
2/ Concern 1: I don't understand conceptually why metaverse land should be scarce from a consumer product market fit perspective.

I get that, say, decentraland limits land to make number go up, but the marginal cost of metaverse land is zero and we need to bring 1B ppl onboard 
3/ So I think, basically, any metaverse that limits land to some artificially small amount will eventually be outcompeted by a metaverse that onboards tens or hundreds of billions of people for close to free

And that is likely to be a centralized institution which is bad 
4/ As always, the scarce thing is people's attention.

From a global perspective, land is not valuable, the median value of a random plot of land on the earth is very low.

But land in NYC is very valuable. Why?

Well because 8M people live in NYC that's why. 
5/ In other words, land in NYC is valuable only insofar as it is a proxy for the attention of 8M people.

That attention drives economic activity - banking, pizza, nightclubs, shopping - which gets embedded in the land value bc the land allows you to capture a slice of it 
6/ So conclusion 1 is that I am long-term bearish on metaverses that are directly or indirectly limiting themselves to xx,xxx or xxx,xxx land owners.

We need billions of people onboard in the metaverse, not 50,000 and someone is going to do it. 
7/ BTW, probably a brief break to say that none of this is financial advice.

Decentraland land might 100x from here. Also, I think Decentraland and all the other metaverses are great and I am delighted that we are running the experiment. And they could change strategy too. 
8/ Concern 2: I am torn on this.

I understand that a 3D representation of 'real world' is helpful for onboarding and will feel comforting.

But walking around empty fields in Decentraland to look for something feels like importing a bug from IRL, not a feature. 
9/ I don't have a practical solution to this

It will require UX innovation because the perfect solution will give a familiar environment without the IRL bugs

Walking + Teleporting. Everyone is doing this of course, but nobody has it right yet IMHO. 
10/ The 'investment' issue this raises is "is physical proximity to other top areas in a metaverse a driver of land value?"

My current view is inclined to yes despite the above, but less than ppl think.

Teleport access from a top area might be more important for example 
11/ Concern 3: Which metaverse technology, platforms, projects win?

This is mission impossible to guess right now.

We are still in experimental phase and a tidal wave of decentralized and centralized metaverses is incoming, including from mega-firms with world-class UX 
12/ So my current best solution to the difficult questions above is take the easy way out and not try to answer it.

For me the answer for now is orthogonal to the question and it is in the direction of memes as embedded in grail NFTs 
13/ If Decentraland wins, will people want to see summer.jpg there? Yes!

If Somnium win, will they want to see The Tulip there? Yes!

What about for each and every metaverse to come? Also Yes! 
14/ So that is my answer for now.

6529 still might buy land in various metaverses - I think of them as 6529 embassies in other nation-states if you like.

But my conclusion for now is that important social/cultural objects (memes) are more important than tech stacks 
15/ If summer.jpg is the statue of liberty for 6529 fam, in a digital world, we can take sunshine wherever we like, from twitter to SR to 6529 land to decentraland, even if needed, into FB and Epic land to show people a way out. 
16/ Memes are the apex objects in society.

The idea of the United States is a powerful and basically irreplaceable idea.

The US Embassy in France, while expensive, is just concrete and steel and can be easily replaced.

tl;dr - Memes first, land second 


16/ On Emerging NFT Photographers



17/ On the 6529 Squiggles

Read all the way through as I fix some math at the end


18/ On Not Financial Advice



19/ On NFT rights experiments. A thread of threads within a thread of threads


20/ On The WIP 6529 Museum Photography Collection


21/ On Billionaire TradArt Collectors


22/ On NFTs 2030

23/ On ETH gas prices




1/ On the 6529 Squiggles Collection

As most of you know, the 6529 Museum collects "horizontally" in @artblocks_io, meaning across collections, to show the spectrum of output across AB Curated projects.

The historical/curation value of the horizontal view in time will be  
2/ It has been, however, a long-standing 6529 Museum goal to have a vertical collection of Chromie Squiggles.

Squiggles are the first, iconic and largest ABC collection, the most memetic and, initially, quite controversial, "you paid what for those squiggly lines?" 
3/ I don't think you can introduce Art Blocks without introducing the Squiggles

And how can you really give a visitor about to enter the 6529 Museum AB wing an understanding of Squiggles without seeing all the various types?

So off I went on a mission 
4/ The 9 types of squiggles
Normal
Slinky
Fuzzy
Ribbed
Bold
Pipe
HyperRainbow
Full Spectrum
Perfect Spectrum

There are ~9,200 squiggles, but only 20 vertical collections are possible bc only 20 Perfect Spectrums exist and I believe this collection is within the 8 rarest possible 
5/ In order, the 6529 Squiggles.

My first was a Normal, #8337.

The good old days of 3 months ago when you could get a Normal for 1 ETH and change.


2/ A Slinky #554

Brings back childhood memories


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/554
3/ A Fuzzy #7925

So fuzzy, so very fuzzy


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/7925
4/ A Ribbed #2852

This one is a bit ghostly


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/2852
5/ A Bold #3147

This is an absolute unit


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/3147
6/ A Pipe #2163

I think this is one is really attractive


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/2163
7/ Now we get to the big leagues:
HyperRainbow: The flashy ones, meant to be the top

Full Spectrum: Every color of the spectrum

Perfect Spectrum: Every color in equal amounts

Gonna switch to chronological order here 
8/ My first big NFT purchase was Perfect Spectrum #1862 from the legendary @VonMises14 for 90ETH

It was the ATH by for Chromie Squiggles as the time.

As @VonMises14 said: "Welcome to the deep end of the pool" 
9/ It was also the beginning of a wonderful relationship with @VonMises14 across the board in Art Blocks.

Perfect Spectrums are the nerd choice in Chromie Squiggles.

None obvious and flashy like Hypers, they are an IYKYK type choice 
10/ So #1862 joined a couple of months ago


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/1862
11/ Then I went looking for a HyperRainbow and picked up this truly beautiful Squiggle #927 from another AB legend @jdh


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/927
12/ So now we get to rarity games questions, where I believe all the platforms are incomplete.

There are 123 HyperRainbows, but AB nerds correctly point out that OS does not list the rare variants (e.g. AB Ribbed).

They are right, there are 45 variant HR

On the other hand... 
13/ ...the Art Blocks wiki does not list the rarest variants of all - the 3 Perfect Spectrum variants (of course @VonMises14 has one) and the 5 Full Spectrum variants.

These are the rarest collection types within Chromie Squiggles.

Any vertical that has 1 is top 8 by rarity 
14/ My theory (personal taste) is that for HyperRainbows I wanted the classic HyperRainbow look (the Normal HyperRainbow).

Whereas Full Spectrum looks to the eye like Perfect Spectrum more or less, so maybe that was a place to look for a variant. 
15/ Enter the picture @trilldeceased and Chromie Squiggle #6339, a very unusual Squiggle:

a) Ghost
b) Ribbed
c) Perfect Spectrum


https://opensea.io/assets/0x059edd72cd353df5106d2b9cc5ab83a52287ac3a/6339
16/ I asked @trilldeceased if this is one of the Squiggles that moves and he said "yes" and that is why he was going to charge me 485ETH which I thought was pretty fair to get animation.

17/ @trilldeceased was the original minter of this ultra cool, ultra rare Squiggle so we discussed names.

With that cool green front, "Alien Ghost Squiggle" it is.


18/ So we 

Trill is drinking champagne over in #block-talk and I am drinking beer at home bc he has all my ETH now and I can't afford champagne anymore

But the 6529 Museum has a vertical Squiggle collection to be proud of, one of the 8 rarest in the world so to all! 
19/ Here is the squad all together

Look forward to welcome art history students, schoolkids and tourists to 6529 Museum to show them our finest squiggly lines



20/ As usual, @VonMises14 is better at counting things than me. There are 7 variant Full Spectrums.

So substitute 7 where I put 5 and 10 where I put 8.

All the rest still the same! 
21/ More precision from @VonMises14

"Perfect spectrum is all 256 color hues displayed exactly once, none repeating. End color is ALWAYS N-1 with N as the start color. Full spectrum is within the 1% of perfect so it can either be up to 2.5 color hues short/more of perfect" 
22/ I actually knew this text was in my DMs with VM from when he sold me the Perfect Spectrum and I thought about looking for it for this thread, then realized that was like 14,579 DMs ago and gave up before even starting 
23/ Read this thread again today and good thing I don't let myself operate heavy machinery late at night while drink beer.

#6339 is a Full Spectrum and ofc @trilldeceased and I both knew that when transacting

Just a typo



24/ So final counts to get the numbers right on the rares, including which ones are in the 6529 collection:

Perfect Spectrum (20 total):
17 Normal 
3 Variant

Full Spectrum (40 total):
33 Normal
7 Variant

HyperRainbow (123 total):
78 Normal 
45 Variant 
25/ So to put the rarity bottlenecks in order

3 Perfect Spectrum Variants
7 Full Spectrum Variants
17 Perfect Spectrum Normals
33 Full Spectrum Normals
45 HyperRainbow Variant
78 HyperRainbow Normals 
26/ Now, practically speaking, I think HyperRainbow variants will probably trade higher than Full Spectrum Normals due to aesthetic reasons.

There are some really cool ones. 
27/ Breaking into Perfect Spectrums though will be really tough.

There will be a few more sales max and they will be locked in.

There are only 20 of them, they are the key to a vertical collection and the hodlers are, beyond 6529/3AC, are basically AB ultra-elite 
28/ It is why 2 months ago, when I bought my first expensive squiggle, I went for Perfect Spectrum first, not HyperRainbow.

There are enough HyperRainbows that I figured I could always find one.

Whereas with Perfect Spectrum you have @VonMises14 @jdh etc as counterparties. 
29/ But it gets worse (better), the 3 Perfect Spectrum variants and the 7 Full Spectrum variants are going to be very hard to lift.

Again, only a handful of sales before they go completely unobtainium 
30/ Now if you want to go micro-micro-micro rarity, here are the counts by variant type:

Perfect Spectrum Ribbed Variant: 3
Full Spectrum Ribbed Variant: 3
HyperRainbow Pipe Variant: 4
Full Spectrum Bold Variant: 5

And only 1 of those above is an Alien Ghost 
31/ The full breakdown down of HyperRainbow variants, courtesy of @banterlytics.

I did not count myself which is probably best for everyone given last night's 'counting' performance

32/ It is underappreciated how relatively rare the rare Chromie Squiggles are

We are all very excited about "Storms" in Fragments because they are quite rare and they are 17/1024.

Perfect Spectrums are 20/~9200 (~ape rare)
Variant PS and FS are 10/~9200 (~alien rare) 
33/ HyperRainbows look like they have pretty decent sized numbers (123), but if scaled to the size of a typical AB drop, it is the equivalent of 15 so relatively as rare as Storms in Fragments.

They are say Zombies from a rarity perspective.

Also they are aesthetically great 
34/ Now @banterlytics is yelling at me in DMs that there are 19 Storms. He is right of course, but he does not know that this was a galaxy-brain tweet, because 6529 has 2 Storms, so there are really only 17

1/ On Emerging NFT Photographers

This will be a relatively shorter thread. I do not claim to be an expert on this topic, but there are more projects and more people in DMs on this topic, so wanted to share some initial thoughts 
2/ This thread is not directed at established NFT or offchain photographers.

They are fine, going to have massive audiences and distribution and will do very well.

This is for those trying to get established. 
3/ Let's start with the general concept that NFTs and their ecosystem (OpenSea, Foundation, SuperRare) give photographers (as with all artists) a vastly vastly better distribution and demand aggregation system.

First step, read @cdixon on 1,000 true fans


NFTs and a Thousand True Fans
Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) offer fundamentally better economics for creators by removing rent-seeking, enabling granular pricing, and reducing customer acquisition costs.
4/ Your long-term goal, assuming your career is photography, is to build your 1,000 true fans. It is an unprecedented opportunity for artists.

Let's work through a simple example and assume your passion is photography of butterflies 
5/ If, pre-NFTs, if you live in Charlotte or Melbourne or Mumbai or Vilnius and try to distribute your work through physical gallery representation, you are limited by:
a) retail space available in the galleries
b) terrible demand aggregation 
6/ In other words, the number of people who live in Vilnius and are passionate about photographs of butterflies and are also going to end up in some random gallery (bc that is where you will be) when you are showing your butterflies are ~0 
7/ On the other hand, do I believe that over the next few years there will be 1,000 people online, on OpenSea, obsessed with butterfly photographs, want NFTs, want physical prints, know the species of butterflies, will stretch financially to buy?

YES! 
8/ So your job is to make the connection, to find something that speaks to that subset of people (tiny subset is fine, 1,000 is more than enough to have a wonderful career doing exactly what you love) that love and appreciate the same thing you do 
9/ This means that for 99.999% of you (the exceptions don't need this advice) you need to FOCUS, at least at first.

I can recognize an Ansel Adams or Robert Doisneau or a Nan Goldin photograph in an instant because they focused, built a unique style.

You should too. 
10/ The first big practical question is do you build a collection or do you do 1/1s.

There are both good choices and in time you will do both, but in the beginning it is best to pick one. 
11/ Twin Flames by @justinaversano has basically invented the format for collections in photography.

Most of you should have 30 to 50 pieces, tightly focused. Twin Flames is just twins. The whole is greater than the sum of the parts, it is awesome to scroll through it. 
12/ I repeat this because it is important. The whole needs to be greater than the sum of the parts. If it is not, it is not a collection
If Justin had a photo of twins and then some cool man on the street photos, well he is still a great photographer but the collection is meh 
13/ A lot of you have picked up the idea of the collections (good) but they are mostly not focused enough (bad).

Unless you are extraordinary, a collection of "urban cityspaces" is not differentiated. How many times have we seen cool pictures of skyscrapers in Shanghai? 
14/ The general rule of collections is "go narrower'.

There is very nice and very boring photography coming out now.

Give the people something they have not seen before. Give them your unique vision. Go tighter, go focused, find your 1,000 fans. 
15/ The other approach is to go 1/1s. Here you are @GuidoDisalle or @aylaelmoussa, you are releasing very few photos, only your absolute best and you are patient. You have to let the market catch up with you.

Again you need a theme/style, but in a different way. 
16/ Pricing.

For collections, if you are unknown, you should price low and with 'buy now'. Nobody has time for your auction my fren.

For 1/1s, you should price higher but still very reasonably at first and as demand grows, *slowly* increment up. 
17/ Remember you are playing a 10, 20, 30 year game.

So you want to build a base of loyal collectors who both love the art but also feel they have picked well economically (even if they never sell).

Play the long game on this 
18/ Lastly, community, 1,000 true fans.

Almost none of us are as social as @justinaversano.

But I think all of you can think about the 1,000 true fans and what it means if they are on a journey with you for decades. 
19/ Maybe for example, you discuss with them, which country you are going to go shoot butterflies next.

Maybe they will have ideas.

Maybe they will be aficionados of butterflies and help you with tips. And so. 
20/ To be clear, you don't have to do anything. You can just shoot and mint and that is also OK. But the opportunity is there if you want to do "more" where "more" is whatever works for you. Unlike in tradart you have easy ongoing access to your collectors and community! 
21/ Good luck out there! We can't wait to see what you can do!

 
22/ More:

Technical proficient photographs are no longer enough.

There are so many technically excellent professional photographers and 100x that advanced amateur photographers.

It is only going to get worse (better) in this regard 
23/ 6529 has had a camera since he was six years old when 6529 Dad got him a Vivitar

Anyone who knows what this is, congratulations, you are old 

My first serious camera was a Canon AE-1 when I was a teenager, which was such an iconic, landmark camera 
24/ The first and last time 6529 was an artist in the normal sense was in that high school era.

I even had a full ride 100% scholarship to go to study photography at university after high school but, as you might guess, my life has taken a much more left brain path instead. 
25/ Today I have two beasts of a camera sitting at home on the bookshelf - a Canon 5D Mark III and Mark IV.

They are absurdly more capable than what we had to work with in the past.

And yet, they barely move off the shelf.

My phone camera is now also good enough. 
26/ So this is a long-winded way of saying to our dear photographer frens that there will be absolute tidal wave of technically superb photography incoming over the next few years both from "professional photographers" but also "advanced amateurs" who will also be able to mint 
27/ That means "great photographs" are not enough.

What I look for on any meaningful purchase, is "do I remember the photograph afterwards".

It might not even be a "technically correct photo", the major challenge is to be memorable, not a postcard or a stock photo 
28/ Now a quibble with almost every current photography project

 You are not minting in high enough resolution 

You are minting to be in collections for decades which means 4K, 8K, 16K, 32K is incoming.

You don't want your photographs to look archaic in 5 years 
29/ "But 6529, there is unlockable content with the high resolution version"

OK, how does that help anything?

I don't want a high resolution version TIFF to print it, I want a high resolution NFT so that you look great in 6529 Museum in 3 years in VR. 
30/ "But 6529, what if someone downloads the high resolution version and prints it"

Umm, great news? We are not boomer right-click-saving-complaining around here.

The scarce part is the NFT, not the print. I don't care if someone prints my NFTs and you should not either 
31/ Your goal should be that your photos become iconic. In that light you want people to print them, to make them their desktop background.

It helps you, it helps the the collector, it helps the people, it spreads the memes. It is a win-win-win-win.

NFT digital display is it! 
32/ So give us your highest resolution mints possible, don't try to lock them away, don't try to create fake physical scarcity (the digital scarcity is the thing here) and let's future proof your great work as much as possible!

LFG 
33/ I think we can close this thread here and add to the collection.

If you landed here and want more views on NFTs, here is the whole list



1/  Opportunity for a writer/s to earn some ETH 

It is clear that for the 100M project we need better on-boarding guides.

"What is an NFT?" "How to buy one?" "What is the wallet whose name cannot be spoken", etc 
2/ 6529 is willing to fund 1 or more writers to write some onboarding guides that we can all use to bring our frens onboard.

Necessary skills: Excellent native-English language skills, excellent understanding of crypto and JPGs. (I can't handhold on this). Also speed! 
3/ Payment will be on a reasonable IRL hourly or piece rate, but can be paid in ETH.

This is a contractor job.

You will have to be doxxed unfortunately due to 6529's real-world regulatory obligations. 
4/ If so, and I dread saying this, please DM me and provide some relevant background that would give me confidence you are a good choice.

This is not a BigCo HR department so no promises I will reply to your DMs. Once I pick someone (or not), will be moving fwd 
5/ And I guess, if you are not a writer, please retweet in case any of your twitter frens are 
6/ In this thread, let's brainstorm what topics we should cover:
a) what is an NFT
b) How do you buy your first NFT
c) HW wallets and how to use (clearly needed)
d) Opensea and how to use
e) LL.com and how to use
f) what is PFP, gen art, 1/1

post ideas below 
7/ UPDATE.

You will be working with @businesskiwi who will be like the editor of this project.

DM him instead! More likely to get an answer 
8/ Also, if you are a expert and would like to contribute your own thoughts, I think that would be absolutely 

In other words, I would love for newcomers to actually read @krybharat's views on 1/1 art and how he thinks about this topic 
9/ Same thing for every area of NFTs.

Someone onboarding to NFTs should, for example, know what @BoredApeYC is, why it was a success, what does it all mean.

I think the best person to write that is someone deep in the community. 
10/ For the experts / I think there is no need for a contract, no need for payment, no need for doxxing.

OK, good luck everyone.

I think this is going to be a  tool for all of us to bring everyone onboard 


1/ OK, the Seize The Memes of Production contest winners have been picked. My algorithm was going down the list in chronological order, seeing if I laughed and seeing if I thought the person likely owned the copyright


2/ I am going to post each winner in the thread below. If you are the artist, please confirm in reply that: a) it is your work, b) you release under CC0) and c) your ETH address and 0.10ETH is coming your way. 


Re-merging the thread

1/ OK, the Seize The Memes of Production contest winners have been picked. My algorithm was going down the list in chronological order, seeing if I laughed and seeing if I thought the person likely owned the copyright


2/ I am going to post each winner in the thread below. If you are the artist, please confirm in reply that: a) it is your work, b) you release under CC0) and c) your ETH address and 0.10ETH is coming your way. 


10/ congratulations @anondeguerre for completely ignoring the rules of the competition but making me laugh with the blatentness of this submission


Re-merging the thread

1/ On the 1st Amendment & SEC

This is not legal advice. I am not a lawyer and I am certainly not your lawyer.

And the 1st Amendment to the Constitution applies to the United States of America and nowhere else.

Having said that, we begin. 
2/ My personal belief is that the 1st Amendment is one of the greatest moments in decentralization in world history.

The US government prohibited itself from interfering in the speech, religion or gathering of its citizens 
3/ The 1st Amendment is part of the Bill of Rights which is 230 years old! (1791)

In an era where looking at a King the wrong way could end up with you hanging from a rope, the US state tied its own hands.

It is, arguably, the greatest of Amendments

What does it say? 
4/ "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances." 
5/ What we care about is this part:

"or abridging the freedom of speech"

In the United States of America, you have constitutional-grade protection from the government saying "you can't say that" 
6/ This is not just innovative for the standards of 1791. It is innovative even today.

In the USA, you can insult politicians, burn the flag or decry someone's most sacred beliefs as a fraud and the government *cannot stop you from doing so* 
7/ This is not true in large parts of Europe and certainly not true in most states today in the world.

Many, I believe the majority, of states have laws that prohibit insulting the state/state officials, or religion or whatever other cultural sensitivities exist in that country 
8/ So why do we care?

We care because we care about decentralization and freedom.

In the United States at least, your punks, fidenzas, MAYC, Meebits, XCOPYs and ns have close to absolute constitutional protection 
9/ OK, great, this is good news, right?

Well yes, but some of you are doing things that might take you out of the realm of art/speech (1st Amendment) and into the realm of the Howey Test (securities).

This, on the whole, is not in your interest. 
10/ The Howey Test determines when something in the USA is an 'investment contract'. Specifically if it is:

a) investment of money in
b) a common enterprise with
c) a reasonable expectation of profits
d) to be derived from the efforts of others

It is an investment contract 
11/ So, why do we care that it is an investment contract?

Roughly and simplifying a lot, you are not allowed to offer investment contracts to random US individuals without jumping through a huge set of complex hoops at the Securities and Exchange Commission 
12/ The general model of the hoops is either:

a) you go through a few hoops but then can only offer your investment contract to accredited investors (rich, not all your internet frens) or

b) many hoops that basically make you a public company to allow you to offer to anyone 
13/ Example 1 (again I am not your lawyer).

6529 drops new NFT collection. White emojis on a black template.

Later, airdrops every hodler a free hoodie emoji to celebrate national hoodie day

Probably ok, reasonable, 1st Amendment type stuff. 
14/ Example 2

"6529 emoji drop! big are aping in! floor pumping! get in now before the DAO snapshot. ERC20 governance token coming soon. Team roadmap! DAO treasury to used for projects that drive value to emoji hodlers. We all gonna get giga-rich together. LFG! " 
15/ So umm:
a) investment of money: check
b) common enterprise: maybe?
c) reasonable expectation of profits: maybe?
d) to be derived from the efforts of others: maybe?

Not certainly, but maybe, possibly, someday, someone could choose to make an example of one of these projects. 
16/ I am not your lawyer and I am not sub-tweeting any specific project.

It is possibly that your project is not subject to US jurisdiction.

It is possible that you have checked with your lawyers and took legal advice and are OK

It is possible these are too small to matter 
17/ But this is 6529's 4th crypto cycle (BTC, ICOs, DeFi) and this is how it goes usually:

- Something new and pure shows up.
- Interest and number goes up.
- People get excited.
- People start violating securities laws.
- [2 years later] nasty letter from the SEC arrives. 
18/ I see us heading to the "possibly violating securities law" phase of this cycle and I would like to ask you all to Please Stop It  unless you 100% know what you are doing

Unlike ICOs which were very hard to do in a compliant manner, NFTs and art are default protected! 
19/ It is completely unnecessary to take securities law risk here.

Just ship art!

You are artists & cultural warriors - there is no need to LARP as investment bankers (badly, I may add)

Also: "this is not a security" on your website means approximately nothing to the SEC 
20/ Again, not legal advice and not directed at any project.

Your DAO may be fine.

Or you may be in a country where your art may not be fine.

You have to study and make your own choices, but wanted to raise the issue so that you make your decisions with your eyes open 
21/ There is a reason I want us to SEIZE THE MEMES OF PRODUCTION and not SEIZE THE UNREGISTERED SECURITIES OF PRODUCTION.

Only the memes are the most important myths that rule the world. This is what we are fighting for.

LFG  
22/ Closing this thread here.

If you just came here for the first time from this thread, you can find all 6529 views on NFTs here:

OK, let's haul out THE TULIP to see if this thing really works.

Never really tried before or read the instruction manual. Don't know what the cmd-line is. Might need some practice

***RESUME UP ONLY****

OK, what else. umm.

DIE BEARS DIE

how about this

THEY ARE BACKED BY THE UNBREAKABLE POWER OF MATH

maybe this?

1 BTC = 1 BTC
1 ETH = 1 ETH
1 Fidenza = 1 Fidenza

I always thought this one sounded good

IT IS ULTRASOUND MONEY

hold on, gotta help @mattysino too

RESUME SOLANA SUMMER IMMEDIATELY



1/ On Making It

Are we GMI? Are we NGMI? Are we WAGMI? What does Making It mean?

I present below the 6529 GMI Framework (tm, all rights reserved, (c) 2021, )

Frameworks are just a tool. None are 'right'. This is just how I think about it. 
2/ Level 1: Crushed by Circumstances

Refugees in Syria. Drought in Eritrea. Civil War in Congo.

Unfortunately billions of our co-travelers in life don't even have the faintest opportunity to make it, due to circumstances outside their control, namely where they were born 
3/ Level 1 presents an existential problem for 6529.

Thousands of little kids will die today as we play with JPGs because they don't have access to a $0.50 pill, bringing endless agony to their parents and cutting their dreams short. 
4/ Level 1 in many cases is a coordination problem.

Literally everyone on planet earth would skip having a soda today for a glass of water to save a kid's life, but the systems are not in place to deliver this (yet).

Right now, society has not fixed this. 
5/ Basically nobody at Level 1 is reading these tweets.

I have no solutions to Level 1. I hope human progress will reduce the scope of Level 1 every year.

Key point: If you are reading this tweet, you most likely have already Made It past Level 1.  
6/ Level 2: The Struggle is Real

This is the level where day-to-day, financial problems are a hassle. You work 2 jobs. You don't have any savings. You worry about a medical emergency.

Your car breaks down, it could cause a cascading crisis of problems bc no $ to fix it. 
7/ If you are in Level 2 and you are in good health, you should do everything possible to get out of Level 2.

Work overtime. Take another job. Push harder now, because the life benefits of getting to Level 3 are huge. 
8/ When money issues are front and center in your daily life, they are a huge tax on your happiness and on your effectiveness.

Unlike L1, I know many people in L2 and many of us have been there early in life.

*If* you can escape, do everything possible to do so 
9/ Practical advice. I think some people here in NFT land are in Level 2

Here I do have financial advice.

If you are in Level 2 and you have a bid on your NFT that will move you up to Level 3, absolutely take the bid and no regrets.

The life benefits of L3 v L2 are huge 
10/ Level 3 - "Middle Class"

In the United States, everyone likes to think they are middle class (both "poor" and "rich" are vaguely embarrassing terms).

So families with $50K income in Ohio and $500K in San Fran both say "we are middle class" +/- 
11/ Despite the fact that the range is broad (and even broader if you look globally), the "middle class" experience is definable.

You have a house. You have a car. You have some savings. You worry about getting the kids to college (but you will get them in and through) 
12/ 6529 has spend most of his life in the "middle class" as defined above

It is a GREAT HAPPY PLACE to be.

If you are at Level 3, enjoy it!

You have already Made It by historical and global standards to the top 1% of anyone who ever lived. 
13/ Level 4: We Like Nice Things

This starts at the upper end of the middle class and goes all the way to the uber-rich because it is a state of mind, not a specific income level.

Basic life issues are sorted. Now we "enjoy" things.

You have definitely Made It 
14/ Depending on your income level, the thing you might enjoy is "a nice trip to paris" or "a house on the lake" or "a house in Aspen" or "a private jet"

This is the vast and endless consumerist playground.

However much you earn, you can spend it all if you like. 
15/ If you are in Level 4, congratulations again.

You have definitely Made It.

You are in like the 0.1% or 0.01% or 0.0001% "Made It" status of anyone who has ever lived.

But...
But.....
But........ 
16/ But what?

My experience suggest that the relationship between happiness in Level 3 and more happiness in Level 4 is tenuous at best, may not exist and may be negatively correlated.

Consumer delights are great, 6529 enjoys, but they do not fill the soul with joy over time 
17/ 6529 has met many many many rich people who have a lot of money and their life is much closer to "mo money, mo problems" than some type of super-paradise.

L3 is much better than L2 which is inconceivably better than L1.

L4 is tricky. Carries many traps. 
18/ Many of you out there are going to make it into Level 4 from NFTs or from crypto.

Congratulations!

Do the practical stuff first. Pay down debt, save for retirement, fund the college account, pay your taxes.

Lock in the transition from L3 in case it all goes to 0. 
19/ Oh there is still money left? Super!

Go to Paris.
Rent the boat (never, ever, ever ever buy the boat)
Upgrade to business class

Check out how Level 4 lives.

And then be honest with yourself. Are you happier? What brought you joy? The stuff, the experiences? What? 
20/ Level 5: Post Consumption / Self-Actualization

Very few people make it to Level 5. Many people tap out at Level 4, even multi-billionaires.

The trap of earning and spending and earning is very seductive and there is always another dream to chase. 
21/ What is Level 5 about?

Your consumption needs are met. The level at which they are met is irrelevant.

For some it is a small house and truck in Wyoming.

For someone else, it is an apartment in Mayfair and a Maybach. 
22/ We make no judgements about what the consumption is, just that it is met.

You no longer long for things, or, more precisely, you long only for the things and experiences that you can easily afford to buy.

What now? Do you quit? Retire? Play golf all day. 
23/ Maybe, if golf is what self-actualizes you, if the dedication and challenge of mastering golf lifts you to your highest version of yourself, then by all means your Level 5 is "play golf"

But often, Level 5 means something else 
24/ Level 5 usually means competing for some abstract goal, usually but not always, a goal that is bigger than you.

You are in it not to make money per se (though you might money) but "for the love of the game"

This is of course another dopamine trap like everything else 
25/ But this is the best dopamine trap.

Some of the happiest, or most satisfied, people in the world are in Level 5.

It does not mean it is easy. You may be working harder in Level 5 than at any prior level.

But you are working for intrinsic goods, not extrinsic goods 
26/ Intrinsic goods are the best goods in the world.

They never go out of style, they never break, they never disappoint you. They are what make most people the happiest if they can Make It to this stage 
27/ Very few people Make It to Level 5 and it is not hugely correlated with income.

There are multi-billionaires fully stuck in Level 4 and people with the consumer spending of Level 3 who are absolutely in Level 5.

Level 5 is not about income. It is about your  
28/ So to conclude

L1: We hurt for you and hope some day we can help
L2: Hustle, if you can (it is really hard)
L3: Enjoy. This might be the best place for most.
L4: Also Enjoy. But be careful. Traps everywhere.
L5:  
29/ Lets do our best and WAGMI together



30/ Q - what level is 6529?

I bounce btw L4 & L5, based on how much I worry about the world & what nice things I see on instagram on any given day.

Spent almost all my life in L3. LOVED IT.

My fam had brief L1/L2 moments, but was too young to notice.

I feel blessed  
31/ OK, going to wrap this thread here. If you would like more deep thoughts about the metaverse, they are here:



1/ I agree with the former.

On the latter, I am more sympathetic. the building in public aspect of NFT/crypto is insane pressure never seen before in startups

N project was launched 2 days ago.

2/ Within 24 hours, cartoon characters online (@loomdart, me) started pummeling team/hodlers on twitter for not having already figured out the correct platform strategy (100% open) that Microsoft took 20 years figure out.

Like your day 1 team meeting with maniacs crashing it 
3/ Building an NFT Primitive protocol in public is like being thrown into the deepest end of the pool with sharks all around you on the first day at the office.

I think team and community is doing much better today.

Less focus on DAOs/governance, more focus on shipping 
4/ I am cautiously optimistic that the corner has been turned here, but we will see.

True for many NFT projects. Just ship art or apps.

In 90% of cases, DAOs and so on are a distraction.

Good luck team  

1 /Seize The Memes of Production! Competition

6529 will pay 0.05ETH to best 20 "Seize The Memes of Production" memes in the replies

Memes can include or not 6529 as per your artistic judgement. No bonus or demerit.

The goal is to start arming ourselves w/memetic weapons 
2/ Rules

1) 6529 is the judge
2) Contest ends in 24 hours or later if 6529 is still having fun
3) Only original art that you made and own copyright to - copy pasting google s is not allowed
4) Nothing mean to others in ry or replies 
3/ Usage

If you win and are paid, you will release the NFT under creative commons 0 so anyone* can do whatever they want with it

*However, if 6529 ever mints it, 6529 will split the mint proceeds w/ you 50:50 & recommends that others do the same.


CC0 - Creative Commons
No Rights Reserved CC0 enables scientists, educators, artists and other creators and owners of copyright- or database-protected content to waive those interests in their works and thereby place them
https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/cc0/
4/ Time to start building our memetic weapons storehouse

LFG  


1/ The 100 Million (100,000,000) Project

First read this to understand the overall mission

Why Decentralization Matters:




Open Metaverse To Save The Future:


2/ I have a thesis on what will keep the metaverse decentralized over the next decade.

That 6529 Army plan is coming in the next couple of days.

In the meantime, no need to delay on the simplest most immediate Team 6529 objective

On-board 100,000,000 people to NFTs 
3/ My theory here is that everyone, young or old, loves the feeling of owning an NFT once they have done so.

It does not matter if it is valuable or not, in fact it is much better if it is *not* valuable.

Everyone I have onboarded so far has followed the same pathway 
4/ "What is this?" then "OK, you have this silly cat or whatever" and "You can move it around as you wish"

[1 week later]

Happily finding the NFTs they love

This is consumer-grade tech to teach people about digital self-sovereignty. 
5/ Facebook and others are working on their metaverses that I assume, in absence of pressure, will be closed.

We have a small window to change the risk-reward dynamics of corporates to be in favor of 'open metaverses' not closed metaverses. 
6/ Corporations are simple creatures. They go where the customers are.

Right now, despite this chaos in NFT land, there are maybe 200,000 of us active.

This is pico-

My guess is we need ~100,000,000 onboarded to change the calculus for corporations 
7/ "But 6529, 100,000,000 is 99,800,000 more people than 200,000" - this is going to take forever

No fam, it will not, so long as we use the power of compounding.

If everyone brings 2 people on board (just 2), we will get there in ~ 9 generations 
8/ How long is a generation? I dunno, that is the only question. If it is about 1 month, then we get there in about a 1 year. If it is 2 months, 2 year and so on.

I actually don't think it is implausible to do it in 1 to 2 years. 
9/ Let's start simple:

This month, each of us need to help 2 IRL frens get their first NFT.

I think I can do it, can you anon? 
10/ Which one should they get?

The cheapest one possible, that's which one they should get. Better yet, gift them one.

We are not bringing people on board to day-trade NFTs but to prepare them for being sovereign in the metaverse 
11/ It is actually very important that you do not try to sell the financial dream.

For all we know, NFT winter is right around the corner and if you are selling riches, well it could all go tragically wrong.

This the way:



12/ We should also teach them the rules.

If we get 100,000,000 on-board, everyone needs to know to say gm and gn politely

13/ And because we are evolving into our own species, own culture, we should also teach them our language.

Here are 72 Things They Need To Know



14/ We have a lot more infrastructure to set up to make this happen: OKRs (Objectives and Key Results), Dashboards, Team Efforts, Rewards, etc

6529 will revert with ideas, but the simplest idea is "sign up 2 frens this month"

Let's get started! 
15/ The 100,000,000 Project Math:
Gen 0: 200,000 (today)
Gen 1: 400,000 new (600,000 total)
Gen 2: 800,000 (1.4M)
Gen 3: 1.6M (3.0M)
Gen 4: 3.2M (6.2M)
Gen 5: 6.4M (12.6M)
Gen 6: 12.8M (25.4M)
Gen 7: 25.6M (51M)
Gen 8: 51.2M (102.2M) 
16/ Which chain should we on-board them to?

It kindof does not matter, just get them on-board

Ethereum: Yes!
Matic: Yes!
Tezos: Yes!
Solana: I guess, Yes!
Cardano: Well....there might be an exception to the rule here 


1/ On N Project

I don't like to discuss my views in this "ramp"-y phase of a project because I do not want to FOMO people.

But people have seen the 6529 buys so might as well open up to deFOMO the situation 
2/ 1st, for the love of god do not FOMO in and lose the rent money on white numbers on a black background

If this fails you will feel very very dumb and 6529 does not want that for you. Also your IRL fam will be mad and you won't even have "I was in it for the art" excuse 
3/ The whole 6529 NFT portfolio is money that 6529 can afford to lose and not change 6529's IRL life.

Today's allocation to N Money is, I dunno, a 1% allocation from *that* portfolio.

Even with the "chad" buys, 6529 is taking NO personal risk here and you shouldn't either. 
4/ Why is 6529 buying white numbers on a black background? Is 6529 being dumb again?

Nope. 6529 believes in decentralization and that decentralization is a spectrum and we should aim to push down that spectrum if we can.

And 6529 will support such initiatives. 
5/ Sure, but what is with the dumb numbers? If you look closely at those numbers, it is a rarity-type distribution.

Where have we seen that before? Well punks and BAYC. But also every Art Blocks project too. 
6/ One of the positive things about blockchain based art is the rarity is open and transparent, unlike in IRL art where everyone is also playing rarity games but less transparently.

OK, so what, we have a distribution of numbers? 
7/ Well, 6529 looks at this distribution and squints, I dunno, perhaps, distantly in the horizon, at [waves hands] a MintPass for a decentralized experimental Art Blocks.

6529 loves Art Blocks more than practically anything in NFTs and will always build on Art Blocks 
8/ But Art Blocks is not sufficient to support the world of decentralized generative art globally from one (amazing) team in Texas.

So the idea of having an experimental space, uncurated, where anyone can publish w/ a pre-built community of collectors sounds v interesting 
9/ But why shouldn't someone just mint / publish by themselves?

Well, perhaps they can and should. But *if* this works, using N Project as a mintpass gets you an instant base of collectors.

Distribution is always a problem online. It is what AB's main value-add is too 
10/ So in some future world, where N Project is a thing and someone is an unknown artist, 6529 can imagine pathways like "mint first on N Project".

If good, the next collection might be Art Blocks (or whatever else is big by then - there will be multiple winners) 
11/ This as a side effect solves gas wars for mints for the normal reason that mintpasses solve gas wars.

And without crazy ideas like trying to solve Sybil Attacks just to buy NFTs 
12/ But 6529, won't the rich get richer here? They get the rare numbers and we plebs are out again.

Not necessarily. The artist has full control. If they want a normal distribution of expensive to whales and then more normal, use the rarity as is. 
13/ An artist can redistribute wealth by penalizing the rares, and give the grails by lottery to the commons.

Or do it for the culture and give "69s" the rares. Or your lucky number.

Or do a flat random mint as we do now for AB.

DAOs 4 the mintpasses?

All are possible! 
14/ What could go wrong with this exciting idea?

Well, given that it is 1 day old, literally everything.

6529 has done absolutely no diligence whatsoever, does not know the team, can vouch for nothing, has no knowledge ex reading twitter and OS 
15/ 6529 does not know if there is a roadmap and if the team is watching considers it to be *vastly preferable* if there is no roadmap whatsoever.

The key for this to work is for it to be accepted as decentralized commons.

So team should work on equal basis to everyone else. 
16/ There will be 10 clones by tonight, 100 by tomorrow. This is why 6529 has "aped" in.

It is better if one platform wins this round so we can test the idea rather than liquidity gets spread across 100 ones.

So all else being equal, better to concentrate efforts 
17/ 6529 Collection Guidance.

6529 is done collecting ultra-rares (0s, 14s, 5 in a row).

Other  have at them and give some exit liquidity to the common man and woman here.

And see if we can network effects going 
18/ 6529 might buy some smaller, cheaper numbers that are pleasing to 6529.

Collection size is close to 50 and will stay roughly in that range.

6529 does not want to be too large a HODLer, it is bad for the project to have collector concentration 
19/ At some point 6529 will decide which numbers make it into Permanent Collection and which ones don't.

At which point there will be an orderly market making but given that 6529 has dozens, not hundreds, it should be fine 
20/ That is all for now.

I am genuinely deeply interested to see where this goes. I have a few more ideas but they are still fuzzy. Will revert when clarified.

Have fun but don't FOMO everyone. 
21/ and the (official?) I think twitter account of the N Project.

In before all the scam accounts appear

@the_n_project_ 

1/ OMG, we must immediately make DAO and buy the town of Fidenza, Italy

Looks cute and manageable and it is in Emilia Romagna so the food will be good

2/ Fidenza


Fidenza  43036 Fidenza, Province of Parma, Italy
43036 Fidenza, Province of Parma, Italy
3/ Fidenza. Looks rare

4/ To be clear, 6529 would absolutely contribute to buying absolutely anything in Fidenza - a house, a field of olive trees, a cafe or whatever, just for the culture.

We can send them some Fidenzas to put on the wall.

It would be INCREDIBLE 
5/ Hive mind doing its thing. We have a local Fidenza fam member. @ryxon211 please figure out what we are going to buy




1/ On institutional traps

The institutions are coming and they are bearing gifts.

They are TRAPS


2/ "We would like to buy your whole collection at an attractive price" [they might even have learned to say "ser"]

TRAP 
3/ "Our fund absolutely believes in the creator economy. We support artists"

TRAP 
4/ "One of the central thesis of BigCap Fund IV is 'Decentralization' - we love what you are doing here"

TRAP 
5/ "We have partnerships with TradArt"

TRAP 
6/ "We will be building a physical gallery to display NFT work"

TRAP 
7/ "Our NFTs will always be available to be viewed by the public"

TRAP*

*Also, this is dumb. They are JPGs on the internet, of course we can view them whenever we want 
8/ "We will invest in DAOs because we believe in the decentralized economy"

TRAP 
9/ "But 6529, don't we want these things? Adoption, capital, exhibits at museums, physical galleries?"

Of course we do. But everything depends on how we do it. If we are free or if in the same matrix we are now. 
10/ The final boss in any western capitalist economy is "Fiduciary Duty" which is interpreted practically that CEO/Directors of a company mostly should care about creating shareholder value and that fund managers should be generating investor (limited partner) value 
11/ The institutions coming mostly (not exclusively, I can't speak for any particular one), are not the principals, but the agents of the Final Boss.

The friendly cool sneaker wearing partner at the hipster VC fund is just an agent.

Her boss is Fiduciary Duty. 
12/ The art knowledgeable expert at the NFT hedge fund. He has a boss. That boss is Fiduciary Duty.

That means in the end, you will have this discussion

"I hear you fam, but Facebook offer is too good and I have a legal duty to my shareholders to accept it" 
13/ There is nothing wrong with fiduciary duty, it is an important concept and I fully support it.

But then you have to look through the agent to the understand what commitments the principal will make to you.

Otherwise, one day, you will be having the discussion above 
14/ "But 6529 how do we compete with the deep pockets of the institutions?"

"Isn't it inevitable that we end up there?"

It is difficult, not inevitable. I think I have a plan. 
15/ Soon

16/ "We are long-term patient investors"

TRAP

They mean 3-7 years, 10 years if you are lucky. Ask when their fund life ends and who is in charge after that

This is ok for flipping mints, OK for infrastructure building, but for culture 
17/ Fiduciary Duty is an old legal term, but the modern interpretation in a corporate context of "shareholder value above all" is approximately 40 year old myth that was first popularized by the Leveraged Buyout (LBO) industry in the 1980s


18/ In the 1980s, focusing on shareholder value was a good reaction to the entrenched management of conglomerates of the 1960s and 1970s where management enriched itself at the expense of long-suffering shareholders.

It was a better myth at the time, evolutionarily superior 
19/ It is of course, a myth, like all myths. It is not an objective rule of the universe that a CEO of a public company should care exclusively about the share price.

She could also care about customers, employees, communities or her own bonus instead. 
20/ In fact, even today there are multiple myths in action even on this same topic.

In most of Continental Europe, "stakeholder capitalism" is the myth. CEOs and Boards are somehow supposed to balance the needs of shareholders, employees, customers and the community 
21/ 6529 is not saying that shareholder capitalism is bad and shareholder capitalism is good or the reverse.

6529 is saying that myths are tools, used by society to achieve certain purposes, they are not Gods, they are not rules of physics. 
22/ Myths are a tool. You should use the right tool for the job.

e.g. If 6529 was investing in a hedge fund trading FX, 6529 thinks that the right tool for the job is for the hedge fund to focus on maximizing 6529's profits so 6529 can buy more JPGs. 
23/ The question we have in front of us lady and gentlemen frens is which myths we are going to choose to manage these this new NFT world.

If we do not act SOON, the institutions will come and they are currently fully embedded in the 'maximize shareholder value' myth 
24/ Is that the exactly right tool for our JPGs, that are partially culture, partially communities, partially financialized?

6529 has some doubts. They are part of the answer, but not the whole answer. 
25/ Talk is cheap though. Money talks and bull**** walks on www dot opensea dot io.

6529 has no intention of being the annoying guy in the bar complaining about "the system".

The system is our society. We are responsible for it, nobody else. 
26/ 6529 believes in expressed preferences. In other words, that actions speak louder than words in terms of what people actually want.

So 6529 is going to give it a shot and we will see if we can fine-tune the myths for this new world 
27/ Soon

28/ "6529, which tools should we use for this fight?"

ALL OF THEM

But Christie's and Sotheby's? YES
But institutional money? YES
But TradArt? YES

We are not going to go live in a monastery. We are going to live IRL, but going to check the "terms and conditions" this time 
29/ To the Community/Artists

"We can help get you in a museum"

Sure, take the help so long as it has no terms and conditions. Otherwise wait.

The museums are going to come by themselves. This is the most vibrant cultural space in the world right now.

Just wait 
30/ To the Big Collectors (whose IRL life is in order)

"We will take your portfolio at current prices minus a discount of course for a bulk purchase"

FUD!

Given thin supply of grail assets, there should be a premium for bulk purchases, not discounts

But don't sell. HODL 
31/ To the Small Collectors

If you need the money for IRL life, take the money without a moment's hesitation. We can make more JPGs, don't worry

We want you here in this fight with your IRL life in order so you have the backbone for the fight 
32/ If you made it this far, the other things 6529 finds important are here

1/ Some of you are old enough to remember when the 6529 Permanent Collection acquired a Lost Robbie (three days ago).

So, why are we back on @SuperRareBot again?

A short story

2/ A few weeks ago, 6529 went on a mission quest for a Lost Robbie, with some guidance from @OSFCollections.

It was tricky and nerve-wracking - for Lost Robbies in particular, many of the deals are off-market, so there were discussions ongoing with multiple people 
3/ There were delays, tickets to be scratched, upgrades to the @SuperRare system and so on and the deals were moving at somewhat different paces.

So when @Premala_BRIC was ready to execute this week, 6529 went ahead.

A few days later, the other deal was ready too 
4/ Though 6529 was not in the market for a 2nd Lost Robbie, 6529 will always provide 100% transaction certainty on deal execution.

You can take our DMs to the bank 

So today, we collected a 2nd Lost Robbie w/ the super help of @alexghahremany who linked buyer and seller 
5/ Now what? 6529 is transparent about when a piece is for the Permanent Collection.

The Lost Robbies are absolutely historical.

One of them will be in the Permanent Collection for sure and now, maybe both

Will need to reflect upon this further and decide

 


1/ On NFT Twitter

We have a lot of newcomers to NFT twitter. This is a thread to teach them our ways.

6529 will start this list today, but will add to it w/suggestions.

NFT twitter has a great culture, very positive. Let's keep it this way. 
2/ GM

gm means "good morning"

We say good morning to each other because we are a friendly happy optimistic global community and it is nice to say good morning to your friends as you start your day 
3/ GN

gn means "good night"

We say good night to each other because we are a friendly happy optimistic global community and it is nice to say good night to your friends as you end your day

(20 hours after you say gm and 4 hours before you say gm again) 
3/ Ser

Ser means "sir"

It is a way to respectfully introduce oneself or perhaps share an alternative point of view 
4/ Fren

Fren means "friend"

Because we are all friends here on a happy mission quest together 
5/ GMI / WAGMI

"Gonna Make It" / "We All Gonna Make It"

The happy future state when everyone understands our JPGs the way we do.

"MOMA just bought a punk. WAGMI" 
6/ NGMI

Not Going To Make It.

Best used in a self-deprecating way about one's own personal bad decisions

"Sold a Fidenza for 5ETH. NGMI" 
7/ McDonald's

Our backup career plan in case the NGMI scenario comes true

"Sold a Fidenza for 5ETH. Applying now to McDonald's" 
8/ LL

Larvalabs, the creators of punks, autoglyphs and meebits

"LL rarely tweets" 
9/ AB

ArtBlocks, the most important platform for generative art in the world, that has three collections: "Curated" (ABC), "Playground" and "Factory"

"Her ABC collection is " 
10/ Generative Art

Art that is algorithmically generated, ideally in real-time when minted.

"She is a bright new star in gen art" 
11/ PFP

Profile Picture. The punks, apes, cats, dogs, skeletons and so on, that we all use in our proto-metaverse of Twitter and Discord.

"That golden snail PFP is sick" 
12/ Looks rare

Rarity is often a driver of value in this space. Used ironically.

[posts picture of steak]
"Looks rare" 
13/ FOMO

The Fear of Missing Out.

Buying an NFT because you are afraid of missing out on the next big thing.

"I FOMOed into Golden Snails and I am not sure why" 
14/ Cope

The opposite of FOMO.

Failing to buy an NFT because one is coping with one's earlier error of not FOMOing at 1/10th the price.

"I know Golden Snails are up 50x and heading to Christie's, but I didn't like the launch so staying out"
"OK, LOL, cope" 
15/ 1:1 Art

Art where each piece is unique (1 of 1). This can be thought in contract to PFP and Generative Art collections that range from 200 to 10,000 pieces typically.

"1:1 szn is coming soon" 
16/ Szn

Szn means season which means market cycle.

Crypto szns are accelerated IRL seasons. NFT szns are accelerated crypto seasons. Might last as little as 1-4 weeks. 
17/ IRL

IRL means In Real Life, otherwise known as the world beyond OpenSea, Twitter and Discord.

It is not recommended to spend too much time there. IRL does not have sufficiently good JPGs. 
18/ Probably Nothing

"probably nothing" means "probably something". It is the polite way to FOMO, with just barely some plausible deniability.

"Visa bought a punk. Probably nothing" 
19/ Up Only

Originally popularized by @CryptoCobain for ETH this year (I believe).

It is everyone's desired direction of NFT prices, certainly preferable to the less popular alternative of "Down Only" 
20/ Liquidity

Available ETH to buy JPGs. This is an impossible state of being. Any available ETH converts into JPGs immediately so everyone is a state of perpetual illiquidity. 
21/ Mint

The act of initially issuing a piece of art on the blockchain, either by the artist or the collector.

"Wow, beautiful picture. Mint it!" 
22/ HEN

An absolutely infuriating marketplace for art issued on the Tezos blockchain that combines: a) huge amounts of interesting and inexpensive NFTs and b) the worst UI made by any marketplace website in decades

hicetnunc.xyz
23/ 1/1 of X

The way to think about PFP and gen art collections.

Punks are 1/1 of 10,000. Fidenzas are 1/1 of 999.

Each one is unique, but they belong to a coherent whole collection in contrast to 1:1 art. 
24/ Right Click Save As

Every non-NFT person's first "gotcha" move when learning about NFTs - demonstrating their vast technical capacity to download an  from a web browser.

Civilian: "I Right Click Saved 6529 and now it is my PFP"
6529: "Go right ahead" 
25/ This is the way

A way to commend socially positive behavior

"She never shilled her project"
"This is the way" 
26/ Floor Price

The lowest available asking price on OpenSea / Larvalabs/etc either for a collection as a whole or for a subset of the collection.

"Golden Snails have hit a 3ETH Floor, but Golden Snail Nerd Glasses are 12ETH floor this morning" 
27/ OG

OG means original gangster. First become popular through 1990s hiphop, the super-Lindy term just flows through community after community.

It means the folks who were here early and earned respect.

"He is an OG punk holder" 
28/ Alpha

Alpha is a term from the investing/hedge fund community representing the outperformance generated by the skill of the asset manager vs beta (the market's performance). Most people's alpha IRL and in crypto is beta in disguise.

"She dropping serious alpha today" 
29/ Its Money Laundering

This is meant to suggest that NFT prices are not real because people are using NFTs to money launder. The exact mechanism of how this works in highly liquid markets is never described.

This is a specific form of IRL and crypto twitter coping about NFTs 
30/ JPGs

JPGs refers to our NFTs that might be JPGs or GIFs or PNGs or audio files or video files or computer games.

It is reclaiming a cope/insult for the community given many normies think "but you are just buying JPGs, are you mad?"

"They will never steal our JPGs" 
31/ Delist

Delist your NFTs from Opensea (no longer offer them for sale) because prices are rising rapidly and they might get sold and market expectations of their value has changed.

"Golden Snail 5ETH floor. Delist!"

Also related to: "Hide your JPGs" 
32/ Discord

A messaging platform heavily used by NFT twitter for NFT project communities.

Discord is all of:
a) useful
b) overwhelming
c) full of scammers
d) will eat all your CPU cycles
e) default set to annoy everyone within miles with notification beeps 
33/ Roadmap

The set of activities an NFT project (usually PFP) will plan to do to add value to a community.

Roadmaps are viewed as desirable in PFP projects and insulting to ask for in art projects.

Needs some care to not accidentally violate securities laws 
34/ LFG

Let's F***ing Go. Used when you are excited about something. Best used with rocket emojis.

"New Golden Snail mint. LFG " 
35/ Few

Few is short for "few understand". Like "probably nothing" it is polite FOMO.

"MOMA bought a punk. Few" 
36/ Gas or Gas Wars

The state of chaos that ensues when all of NFT twitter tries to mint the same project at once, driving up gas prices for the whole Ethereum network.

The hardest unsolved problem in computer science - there is a Nobel Prize in this for someone. 
37/ Ded

Ded is short for dead. Also, see "deceased"

"I sold my Fidenza for 5ETH. I am deceased." 
38/ Rug

Rug is short for rug pulled. It came from Crypto Twitter and particularly DeFi where a lot of projects pumped and dumped on retail.

Not 100% sure if rugs as a concept make sense in the context of JPGs, but it is used for devs who run away from their project +/- 
39/ IYKYK

If You Know, You Know

This is, like "few", a polite form of FOMO in most, but not all usages.

"MOMA bought a punk. IYKYK" 
40/ Derivatives

Projects derived from the original project, first popularized with a wide variety of "alternative" punks.

The intelligent view on derivatives is that they are fine, enhance the brand of the original and everyone should stay cool about them. 
41/ Noob/Pleb

Newbie and Plebian. The opposite of OG. The polite way to use these terms is only about yourself.

"6529 is such a noob. I can't believe I forgot to mint the Golden Snail" 
42/ Seems legit

"Seems legitimate" in other words, the project looks serious and potentially with good prospects.

Can be used straight or ironically about a project's prospects

"I am launching Baby Fast Food Golden Snails on Solana"
"Seems legit" 
43/ Meatspace

Another term for "IRL". That vaguely annoying reality where the laws of physics and biology apply. Not highly recommended.

"Meatspace issues today. Car tire blew out" 
44/ Buying on secondary

When you fail to mint a project and have to buy on opensea. Comes from finance world - primary stock sales are directly from company; secondary is what you trade day to day. Almost all action is secondary.

"Missed the mint, gotta buy on secondary" 
45/ Schelling Point

A game theory term people believe applies to NFTs (and BTC)

Specifically that certain NFTs will become stores of value and, as such, become more of a store of value, storing more and more value in those NFTs

See: Up Only


Focal point (game theory) - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Focal_point_(game_theory)
46/ Up Only (updated with correct provenance)

Up Only (see earlier in thread) now correctly credited to @Cryptopathic. I knew/forgot that. Must be getting old in meatspace.


47/ Wen moon?

This one comes from CryptoTwitter and refers to the price of your NFT ascending to the moon which is very far away

Less popular in NFT Twitter because we are a bit less financial over here. Used more ironically.

"6529 x Golden Snail collab"
"Wen moon, ser?" 
48/ Valhalla

An enormous hall where dead Vikings party alongside people with valuable NFTs.

See also: Heaven

"6529 is either ascending to Valhalla or heading to McDonald's"


Valhalla - Wikipedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valhalla
49/ DYOR

DYOR means Do Your Own Research

The person telling you this is (correctly) disclaiming responsibility re the question of if an NFT is right or wrong for you

"I aped Golden Snail, but DYOR" 
50/ Aped

This one has come straight from Crypto Twitter. It means "take on a large position relative to one's own portfolio size"

Apes have a strong NFT history - first, the famous 24 ape punks and then with Bored Ape Yacht Club.

"I aped Golden Snail, but DYOR" 
51/ NFA

NFA means "Not Financial Advice". It is related to DYOR.

Again, someone shares an idea, but your job to decide if it is for you.

"I aped Golden Snail. NFA" 
52/ This is the way (continued)

A bit advanced for today's lesson, but yes, 6529 will allow


53/ Mam

Mam is short for "Ma'am"

Like Ser, this is also a respectful way to introduce or share an alternative point of view

"Mam, I prefer my Golden Snail" 
54/ Degen

Degen is short for Degenerate, meaning taking unreasonably high trading risks

"All non-Degen trading punished in Up Only 1:1 szn. Few. LFG . NFA. DYOR." 
55/ Maxi

Derived from Bitcoin Maximalist. The belief that your crypto-chain is above all the best

It has now made it to NFTs.

"he is a punks maxi. missed BAYC. coping hard" 
56/ Salt

Salt, as in salty, as in your tears, when you are coping.

"Golden Snail is just a rug. 6529 shilling all day"
"So much salt" 
57/ Love to See it / Hate to See It

These can have their normal English meaning or the opposite. DYOR!

"Her NFT made the MOMA. Love to see it"
"Celeb cash grab project site down. Hate to see it" 
58/ Rekt

Rekt is short for wrecked, for when the state of your portfolio looks like a car crash. This is not desirable, but often unavoidable.

"Got rekt trying to go short the Golden Snail. NGMI" 
59/ DAO

Decentralized Autonomous Organization. Smart contracts with their own tokens and governance that own assets and take actions. Endless potential, but for the SEC

"I am launching my hoodie nerd glasses DAO next week" 
60/ OK Boomer

Something you can say to anyone more than 22 years old whose opinion you disagree with.

"The Golden Snail is not real art"
"OK Boomer, NGMI" 
61/ They

When you don't know the gender of the anon character you are interacting with.

"Love coolcat5434. They are a great collector" 
62/ "I see what you did there"

When you note a smooth move from one of friends, competitors and collaborators in the metaverse. A mark of respect mostly

Self-contained, does not require a sentence. 
62/ Shilling

Being annoying loud about getting people to buy your art or buy your bags. Or trying to generate FOMO among others. Don't do it. Nobody likes it.

"Here goes he goes again shilling the Silver Snail" 
63/ Your Bags

Your bags, like 6529's suitcase before a long trip, are heavy. They are heavy because you packed too many NFTs in them and you are now are trapped in an illiquid position.

[Record scratch, 3 days earlier]

"Bags packed on the Silver Snail! LFG!!! " 
64/ Sweep the Floor

The act of sweeping all the floor (lowest) priced NFTs in a collection into your wallet. Often the step before discovering your bags are too heavy.

"Just swept the floor on the Silver Snail!" 
65/ FUD

Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt. An old sales trick, most commonly attributed to Microsoft in the 1990s.

Here it is repurposes for price predictions, namely to complain that they are too low.

"2,500 ETH floor for Fidenzas in 2025 is FUD" 
66/ GOAT



Greatest of All Time. Pure respect and homage.

"He is theGolden Snail trader" 
67/ Gang Gang

Nobody can explain it well. Basically frens with the same JPGs as you, but I am not thrilled with my explanation either.

"Gang gang" 
67/ On-Chain and Off-Chain

Refers to whether relevant steps in any particular process are occurring visibly on the blockchain or are happening off-chain and then just executed on the blockchain.

"Our generative designs happen 100% on-chain" 
68/ Burn

To lose use of a token by sending it to an address you don't control in exchange for a different benefit (like a different token).

"He burned his Golden Snail Food Token for a token for the Golden Snail DAO" 
69/ Stake

As in DeFi, to lock up an NFT (reducing supply) in exchange for other benefits

"She staked the 10 Golden Snails in exchange for 10 $GSnail tokens per day" 
70/ Citadel

The place we will end up when we make it. In contrast to Valhalla, the Citadel does not have dead Vikings.

"If you own 10 Golden Snails and at least 1 Platinum Snail, your entry to the Emperor Tier of the Citadel is assured" 
71/ As always, 6529 and Sunshine  you all.

WAGMI

72/ For all other things 6529 thinks are important, take a look here





1/ The 6529 Museum is delighted & honored to announced the addition of one of the most historically significant 1/1s - one of The Lost Robbies.

We will expound on this in more detail in a few days.

For today, I would like to welcome @Premala_BRIC to NFT fam

2/ @Premala_BRIC was the original owner and seller of the Lost Robbie.

So first, let us welcome her to the NFT club.

According to @banterlytics this is in the top 223 sales ever (including bundles) 
3/ @Premala_BRIC comes from a family in the art world and is an art advisor in the TradArt and wealth management field.

She and I have been talking NFTs for weeks now and she is very interested in learning more about our world 
4/ So let's give her a follow and warm welcome. She is another bridge to helping onboard the rest of the world.

In a few days, we will return with more details about both The Lost Robbies and her story

 


1/ 6529 Global Amalgamated Enterprises is proud to announce that it will be saying "gm" to frens across all time zones as it is always a good morning somewhere

Let's kick it off with wishing an extra special gm to Nuuk, Greenland 
2/ GM to our frens in Lima, Peru!

3/ GM to Akihabara

4/ gn to Milan



Missing some Tweet in this thread? You can try to force a refresh

1/ A fun story with @lphaCentauriKid and @klepikovadaria that even they don't know.

As many of you know, I am a fan of @lphaCentauriKid.

One day I notice on twitter that he had started an auction on one of @klepikovadaria's series on @KnownOrigin_io 
2/ Specifically, @lphaCentauriKid put a bid in/triggered an auction on "Hopelessness" the first of the "Splitting" series


https://knownorigin.io/klepikovadaria
3/ I think artists collecting artists is super cool. It has always happened but will happen more in this field due to the vastly better distribution dynamics.

But being in an auction is kindof fun in its own right, a bit stressful, a bit fun. 
4/ I wanted @lphaCentauriKid to have some of that fun, but I obviously did not want to run him out of a piece he wanted.

And if showed up as 6529 would probably terrify everyone.

So what to do?

I spun up an alt-to-my-alt and sent the middle piece in the series to auction 
5/ That way he could worry that some anon might jump into his auction, but without me, well, actually jumping into his auction.

He won the first piece, I won the second.

A few days later, the 3rd piece was still outstanding so I picked it up so it wouldn't be lonely 
6/ So now we have a win-win-win.

- @lphaCentauriKid has the piece he wanted
- The 6529 Museum has two interesting pieces from the series
- @klepikovadaria series is deservedly sold out

And everyone has a fun story too 





1/ On buying your first NFT

6529 has a lot of new followers and (so far) has DMs open and receives a lot of DMs asking "Hi 6529, I am new, which NFT should I buy"

So rather than trying to answer this 1-on-1, I am posting this for future reference 
2/ First, the disclaimer. 6529 will never ever ever tell you which NFT to buy.

6529 will not tell you if "a collection is good" or "if this NFT is rare" or "if this NFT will go up value" 
3/ Related, 6529 does not want you to buy an NFT, does not care if you buy an NFT and does absolutely not want you to FOMO into buying an NFT that you later regret.

Stay cool. We are not going to run out of JPGs 
4/ Now, let's come to you and why you are here?

If you are a 'civilian' with a normal life budget and you have not historically been a) buying art or b) successfully trading crypto, then you need to forget about "investment gains" in NFTs 
5/ In other words, if you are a civilian, you should consider any purchase of any NFT you make to be in your "entertainment" budget for the month, not your retirement portfolio.

Consider your spending as 'antiquing' or 'a night on the town' or 'weekend in LV' 
6/ Or to put it differently (and this is advice I have to anyone buying crypto since 2013), if you buy any NFT, you should immediately mark it down to $0 on your balance sheet.

Assume it is (economically) worthless and illiquid.

If that makes you queasy, you are overspending 
7/ Ask yourself, why are you here? If it is to see the birth of a new approach to art, note that you do not need to spend a single penny.

You can see every NFT for free online. 6529 (and others) are building museums and you can see curated collections there too. 
8/ Wait 6529, are you being disingenuous? Don't you buy NFTs that you hope will go up in value. Sure.

But I am following the rules above and my NFT (and crypto portfolio) is always firewalled from my IRL life.

If all NFTs go to zero, 6529 will live the exact same life 
9/ I have the luxury that my IRL life does not require any crypto or NFT gainz to be pleasant at the consumption levels I choose to live at.

So I am here for other reasons, for ideological reasons, to fight for the open metaverse. 6529 is self-actualizing in the NFT space  
10/ So, you have read all that, you have accepted it and you still have some *entertainment* budget to buy an NFT. Which one should you buy?

The first NFT you should buy is a super cheap one to learn how NFTs work. This is what 6529 did.

11/ In other words, you should learn how to use your ETH wallet, how to use OpenSea, how to buy and transfer an NFT with "play money".

There are NFTs for 0.01 to 0.03 ETH. Find one that looks cool to you and buy it.

Ask yourself how you feel owning it? Better? Worse? 
12/ Show it to your family. Put it up in an @oncyber_io gallery.

Are we having fun? Then proceed to next step. Are we not having fun? Then chill out. There is no need to buy an NFT. Just hang out and wait 
13/ The next question is what is your budget. If it is more than +/- $10,000, then your next step is to buy a Trezor or Ledger to keep your NFTs safe.

Software wallets w/o a hardware device are NOT SAFE

If $200 for a Trezor makes you queasy, then reevaluate your spending. 
14/ Discord and to some degree twitter is/are full of scammers.

They DM you, they pose as customer support, they sent you phishing links, they ask you for your seed phrase.

Never give your seed phrase to anyone! Careful on links DMed to you from anons too. 
15/ OK, so you have:

a) gotten a hardware wallet,
b) done a test transaction,
c) accepted that NFTs are not going to fund your retirement but are an entertainment expense, how do you think about/find/buy your NFTs 
16/ The largest NFT marketplace is @opensea. You can find everything there, but it is also vast.

@SuperRare, @withFND, @KnownOrigin_io and @rarible are other marketplaces, usually but not always, at higher price points. 
17/ The first job is to just browse, browse, browse to learn what you like and to understand the various aesthetics at play.

You should follow people on twitter. The people I follow is good coverage of the NFT universe. 
18/ A lot of people I follow on twitter are pros/whales in NFT world.

Some of them are successful traders/flippers, some of them have balance sheets that strike fear even into 6529's heart.

Don't get FOMOed by my feed. It is a 'pro' feed 
19/ The main categories of NFTs today (outside of gaming) are:
- PFPs (Profile pictures) such as punks, apes, cats and more
- Generative Art (like @artblocks_io and others)
- 1/1s from artists
- Photography (emerging) 
20/ 6529 has no view whatsoever on which of these are of interest to you. 6529 collects across the board but most heavily in generative art, but that is a purely personal decision.

Most projects have discord servers - join them and see if you think the community is for you. 
21/ So you have surveyed the landscape, found something that you like, found a community that you like and want to purchase within a certain area.

How to think about the purchase? 
22/ The first framework is if you are buying "at the floor" (lowest prices in collection), at the ceiling/grail (most expensive) or in the middle.

Most people start at the floor and this is probably right for the reasons in the next tweet 
22/
Floor
+: Market price is known, most liquid to exit if needed
- : Most competitive so gets relatively priced up

Mid/Upper:
+: usually less competitive (fewer buyers)
-: less liquid, market price is more subjective 
23/ How is market price set between the floor and the ceiling?

Some mix of aesthetics and rarity in most collections. The first is subjective, the second is semi-objective. There are many ways to calculate rarity and pure statistical rarity is often wrong. 
24/ I think it is fair to say if you don't understand the algorithm of the rarity and why you think you are buying a "rare" trait, then you probably should not be buying that piece.

Also, are you speculating anon? We said we are here for entertainment 
25/ I think for most people the first non-test purchase should be in a collection they like, a piece that they like, at and near the floor.

And then they should hang out and wait to see how they feel owning it before deciding to buy more 
26/ The final classic advice which is 100% true is

"Buy art that you like"

The number of JPGs you can buy will exceed your budget by a factor of infinity (true for 6529 also). So there is no reason to ever buy JPGs you don't like. 
27/ If you buy NFTs that you like and you are operating out of your 'entertainment' budget (and immediately write them down to $0 on your balance sheet), then you can't lose in NFTs.

You will enjoy seeing your NFT online, in a gallery, on a Frame TV in your house

 
28/ I am also asked by some IRL or crypto whales which NFTs they should buy.

That is a different thread, for a different day, as they have different life parameters.

This thread is for the civilians. 
29/ To conclude:
a) The art is free around here - you don't have to buy an NFT to enjoy it!
b) Take your time, there is no rush
c) Spend out of your entertainment budget
d) Buy what you like
e) Use a hardware wallet

 
30/ The rest of my threads I consider interesting can be found here



31/ Update -> at least 30 people have DMed since this thread went live to ask me "which NFTs to buy"

And I think most of them were asking unironically

 

1/ Earlier this week, I came across this absolutely mesmerizing piece of art by @aylaelmoussa.

Expand it full screen & watch the waves wash over. It is incredible, meditative. I would love to see it wall-sized.

So it joined 6529 Museum




https://foundation.app/@Aylaelmoussa/bodyscape-ii-21452
2/ Then I saw "Sands of Time", w/ same theme as "Bodyscape II" and thought:

One of these is super, but two, together, on huge opposing walls*, facing each other would be really something extraordinary.

* in IRL/metaverse, tbd - @rayan_oncyber 


3/ There are two new pieces in similar themes on @SuperRare in her collection, one with a new, related, but different theme that you might enjoy.

Also, I won't counter-bid these pieces. This one is so so cool IMHO.


4/ Then when chatting with @aylaelmoussa, I learned about a fun collection of hers (Nude Pixels). I bought a couple for fun and you will understand why.

I encourage you to zoom in when opening these for the best possible view 


5/ So super-excited to have come across @aylaelmoussa work and to have chatted with her.

Her work is impossible to forget once you have seen it.

So, I dunno, say hello to her, NFT fam 
6/ Ah, this is a better display of her new work for Twitter




Missing some Tweet in this thread? You can try to force a refresh

1/ Consider the tulip. It is an elegant flower, beautiful, optimistic, stunning.

But for a decade, our enemies have turned tulips against us

Today we we reclaim The Tulip for crypto, with one of the most remarkable pieces of art ever recorded on a blockchain

2/ "They are buying tulips" has been a very powerful meme against us.

Today, I am proud to say "Yes, I did, in fact, buy a tulip."

Perhaps the most important and powerful tulip in world history. 
3/ I believe Fidenza #313 (The Tulip) is among the very very very most definitive Fidenzas.

By extension, The Tulip is one of the most important pieces in @artblocks_io history and, further, in early on-chain generative art.

Time will tell if history agrees with me. 
4/ All credit is due to @tylerxhobbs and his work of staggering genius.

I want to thank @bonafidehan for his tireless efforts to get this deal to the finish line and the anon seller who was patient, flexible and constructive.

 
5/ The 6529 collection full of amazing work, by amazing artists, but there are 3 works in particular for memetic battle

The first is Sunshine, our most obvious hero. The second two will make more sense over time.

 @XCOPYART @tylerxhobbs @dmitricherniak 

1/ On Metaverse

"But in the metaverse" is a running joke on cryptotwitter

I regret to inform you that it is no joke.

What we are playing for is whether our children will be fully free or residents in a digital company universe - with the illusion of free, but not really free 
2/ The Wikipedia definition is OK

"The Metaverse is a collective virtual shared space, created by the convergence of virtually enhanced physical reality and physically persistent virtual space, including the sum of all virtual worlds, augmented reality, and the Internet." 
3/ In other words, the metaverse is a superset of virtual realities, augmented realities and the internet.

NFT Twitter & Discord is a form of proto-metaverse, with its avatars, shared communities and shared 2D/3D spaces (@opensea, @oncyber, @decentraland), hanging off it. 
4/ And this is, of course, a continuation of decades of internet communities from bulletin boards to AOL to modern social networks

So what is different now? Why does this feel different? 
5/ So what is different now? Well, global internet scale for one, but more importantly:

- Crypto/NFTs

and

- UX 
6/ Crypto, and in particular NFTs, have converted our online communities for the very first time into an ownership society.

Your avatar, your digital art, your in-game items, your gallery template are all NFTs and they are genuinely owned by you 
7/ This is very new, very different.

You are not a 'user' on the flip side of an EULA, a mere guest on someone's server with effectively no rights whatsoever, but a true sovereign owner of your digital objects.

It is BTC, but for everything digital 
8/ The scale and breadth of what this can unleash is astounding as you get huge decentralized global communities coordinated with economic incentives.

Crypto is like 5x normie speed. NFTs are 2x to 3x crypto speed 
9/ What about UX? This is what drives the jokes right now. 3D worlds are still clunky.

Interesting, but not ready for consumer prime-time YET.

I like Decentraland, but my information flow is 100x better on Twitter 
10/ The UX issue is going to be solved in the 2020s.
You can expect photorealistic mixed reality (augmented reality, virtual reality and real reality) with minimal lag in non-ridiculous devices this decade.

Mixed realty (the Metaverse) will be just your regular life 
11/ 6529 is not the only person that has noticed this.

Some of the smartest people in tech also know this, including:

1) Mark Zuckerberg
2) Epic


Mark Zuckerberg is betting Facebooks future on the metaverse
An interview with the CEO about his most sci-fi speculation.
12/ This is both good because they have the money to invest in improving the tech but this bad because the goal will be walled gardens.

You already can't access the best VR hardware in the market without a Facebook account which is, to me, alarming 
13/ Unfortunately right now we have few allies:

a) China is going walled garden

b) US political leadership is not thinking strategically, sees everything through an AML/KYC lens

c) EU is determined to learn nothing from the last 30 years of tech failures 
14/ The SEC securities rules are also brutal.

I know why they exist and how they protect, but in a decentralized world, they are a huge regulatory moat for incumbents vs decentralized coalitions working to build anything from art projects to VR hardware 
15/ I have so many ideas I would like to push to crowd-build but I have not yet found a way to do it without possibly creating an unregistered security.

It is a serious issue and not even on the agenda really regulatorily as a high-level anti-concentration measure 
16/ So anon fam, for right now, we are on our own.

We have to build, build, build now, as fast as possible, to make the default decision for corporations to join the open system, not to try to capture a closed one 
17/ We are all in this together. Don't sweat the differences between punks / BAYC / AB or 1/1s.

Right now we need to scale and onboard everyone.

If we can get 1M, 10M, 100M, 1B people the experience of owning their digital assets, good luck to the in-game closed store. 
18/ Also, don't let people from inside the system bully you for using the basic tools that our society is organized with

Facebook has access to Mark Z's prodigious talent because he has made $129B from Facebook. 
19/ Yet people who fund Facebook and Nike and Disney and their huge executive salaries with their spending and time are often offended that someone made money from a JPG

This is silly. If we concede "money" to the system, it is game over. Everyone needs money in this world. 
20/ tl;dr

The Metaverse will actually happen this decade.

If it is open, human innovation will flourish. If it is closed, we are digital serfs of sorts.

We 100,000 or so people right now are the front-line in this battle and we have to do it ourselves 
21/ As always

Don't let the institutions steal your JPGs

 

1/ Giga-brain research thread by @phon_ro.

Many great collecting strategies in NFTs and AB.

Individual pieces one likes, deep vertical collections (@bonafidehan in Fidenzas) and horizontal collections (e.g. @VonMises14) and everything collections (@Vince_Van_Dough)


2/ Obviously there is no right or wrong, it has to do w/ one's orientation to collecting.
I tend to horizontal collections because I think they tell a story.

In this case the story of early generative on-chain art. (I also own a Glyph and Squiggly for similar reasons) 
3/ I think Elevated Deconstructions are actually under-appreciated because of this reason - people buy for "bottleneck" and skip the art a bit.

I think they look great, spare, minimalistic. Not obvious, but in time some other AB collections may look gaudy in comparison. 
4/ I think Elevated Deconstructions will age very well in time aesthetically.

Imagine how a set of 3 or 5 will look in VR, in huge scale, in an epic setting.

They are like remnants from a mysterious alien civilization.

My gallery gives a hint of this, but just the beginning 
5/ They look better in sets -- but would look even better bigger.

Artifacts from a lost ancient alien civilization



6529 ~1 month old 

Some of you know me from somewhere else 

My views on NFTs in the thread below 

10/ Everything You Need To Know About NFT Twitter in 72 Tweets.

(You will have to expand the thread after #30)

1/ On @XCOPYART, summer.jpg and sunshine

IMHO, XCOPY is the most important memetic warrior in the NFT universe right now


2/ I first noticed XCOPY's work a long time ago (when I was not paying attention to NFTs - silly me).

My initial reaction was "OK, cool, dark aggressive stuff" and did not look into the substance at all.

Just looked at the vibe. 
3/ This year as most of you know, I spent a lot more time on NFTs and, inevitably, a lot more time looking at @XCOPYART.

And then I started realizing how well XCOPY has managed to encapsulate meme after meme after meme. 
4/ We all know about "Right Click Save As" as a concept. We talk about it all the time.

But when when someone wants to artistically reference it, like @lphaCentauriKid does in his work, the reference shorthand to use is XCOPY's.


5/ This is the power of meme, of myth, the cognitive shortcut that allows humans to scale into organized society.

We have extraordinary artists in NFT land, but in my wholly subjective opinion, nobody distills myths as well as XCOPY does right now.



6/ So I decided a few weeks ago that I would like to collect an XCOPY piece.

I pored over all his work, I DMed many other collectors and XCOPY, all of whom were hugely helpful.

Was not sure what to do.

Then summer.jpg was minted. 
7/ It would be an understatement to say that summer.jpg shook me up on multiple dimensions.

First, that XCOPY could create something so counter the XCOPY style and yet still 100% the XCOPY style.

Light, not dark; still, not animated. Greatness at work. 
8/ Second, it was incredible exactly how well @XCOPYART captured JPG summer.

Unlike earlier XCOPY work that referenced periods when I was was not active in NFTs, I am active now.

I know what it feels like. And this is exactly what it feels like. 
9/ Third, and most important, summer.jpg can reach the rest of the world.

It is absolutely jam-packed with memetic tools and it is positive, it is summer, it is sunshine, it is happiness.

And because it is XCOPY, it is not saccharine in the least.

ENDLESS POTENTIAL 
10/ So I had to have it and the rest is history, but a history that has just begun.

Sunshine is going places and there is no limit to where he can go.

Thank you @XCOPYART. We are lucky to have you. 
11/ PS. In before the haters.

What, you can 'right click save as' this JPG?

Yes, you are right the whole thread is cope because I spent $800K on a JPG

 
12/ PPS. Sunshine himself

Have a great rest of the summer fam



1/ On Regulation and NFTs (briefly)

Some have asked me to expand on my comment on this topic, so here is my quick summary, noting that I am not a lawyer and not your lawyer.

So none of this is legal advice and I am speaking mostly from a US perspective here. 
2/ At the base level, I believe NFTs have very strong First Amendment (free speech) protections in the United States.

This protects you from censorship from the government (not from other private actors).

The risk that US govt can ban speech is ~zero 
3/ Taxes

Taxes will apply to NFTs just like they apply to everything else in life.

Not tax advice, but minting as an artist is probably ordinary income and buying/selling is capital gains and prob 'collectibles' capital gains which is higher. 
4/ KYC. You should expect the large centralized marketplaces to, at some point, enforce AML/KYC regulations on large buys/sells.

These regulations exist in offline art world. Hard to believe they won't be applied online 
5/ "But 6529, by then we will be on decentralized marketplaces"

Maybe we will, maybe we won't, but then the KYC will be applied at the point of re-entry to the fiat financial system.

You may need to pay for a house, car, college tuition. You will be KYCed then. 
6/ Copyright. There will be some DMCA wars around copyright on centralized exchanges. This already exists.

I do not spend too much time worrying about this.

We can create our own memes and decide to not enforce this if we want. 
7/ I think that is all on the basic business of creating, buying and selling JPGs.

It is very manageable in my opinion.

So what are you worried about 6529? 
8/ I worry a bit about the projects that have US persons buying and might fail the Howey test.

The Howey test is the USA test of if something is an investment contract and then subject to securities reg.

The form of the instrument does not matter, but the substance does 
9/ What is the Howey Test?

1/ It is an investment of money
2/ There is an expectation of profits from the investment
3/ The investment of money is in a common enterprise
4/ Any profit comes from the efforts of a promoter or third party 
10/ I am not going to comment on any specific initiative or project because I am not the project's lawyer or the SEC's lawyer

But I have seen some super-cool and innovative initiatives in this space, that I worry might be viewed this way by the SEC 
11/ A good rule of thumb here might be if you find yourself tweeting "buy this thing, become my investment partner and I will do lots of things and it will go up in value", you are in the zone where it makes a lot of sense to find an experienced attorney to discuss it. 
12/ Overall, I think the NFT space is looking a bit too closely at "how can we integrate with DeFi" that will be largely regulated and less than it should at composability that is is very unique and does not present any obvious regulatory problems. 
13/ I have said this before, we should look for ways for our JPGs to develop native revenue (ordinary income) in the first instance, not immediately jump to financial structuring.

The former is much lighter-weight to run. 
14/ "But 6529, I am here to beat the system"

The system, my fren, has all the money, all the people and men with guns who can put you in a box.

While you live in meatspace, you cannot 'beat the system' by, for example, not paying your taxes IMHO. 
15/ We have the opportunity here to beat the system by seizing the high ground in the system, the myths, the stories.

Everything else - laws, businesses, cash flows, flow from there.

That is a big reach, but that is the opportunity here 
16/ I am an amateur in these legal matters.

Two good follows in the space are @awrigh01 and @thenftattorney.

As always, don't let the institutions steal your JPGs

 

1/ On Decentralization and NFTs

The arc of human progress trends to decentralization, but the internet and machine learning could lead to the greatest centralization known to man 
2/ Centralization is better most of the time, but it is prone to catastrophic failure states

3/ Or, to put it otherwise, any architect of any centralized social, monetary or political system should ask themselves what happens when my worst enemy is in charge of this system 
4/ Many of our current system architects couldnt be further from this mindset.

See the below on CBDCs by the Head of the BIS

5/ No king in history ever had the ability to censor every single transaction across the economy, even someone buying a tomato from their neighbor. 
6/ And we havent seen anything yet  the combination of big data, sensors, drones  and machine learning could lead to systems of staggering social control 
7/ What drew me to Bitcoin a long time ago was its permissionlessness and censorship resistance, which is a property of decentralization. All the rest is secondary 
8/ There are many factions in Bitcoin but the one faction that deserves our gratitude are those fighting for decentralization. Having a censorship resistant payment rail is a huge societal good 
9/ A detour.

In the early 1990s, there was a NYTimes article asking But who is going to be the editor of the internet? 
10/ The First Amendment in the United States is an extraordinarily powerful tool and why we will never have a govt appointed editor of the internet

It is perhaps why we have the internet we have today 
11/ Post Bitcoin, we have gone through three phases of attempted product-market fit for crypto (broadly speaking):

- ICOs
- DeFi
- NFTs 
12/ ICOs and DeFi, for better or worse, do not have effective First Amendment protections.

The full panoply of AML/KYC, securities laws, banking laws and the rest generally will apply 
13/ I am bullish actually on DeFi in the medium term, but I think it will be largely, a form of CeDeFi, hybridized with the existing system. 
14/ NFTs on the other hand, well, they have access to perhaps the most powerful practical constitutional protection in the United States - the First Amendment.

The government banning our punks and frogs and squiggles is LOLOLOLOL impossible 
15/ If we are smart about it, this time "we've got them", if we play our cards right.

We can, for lack of a better phrase, seize the memes of production 
16/ A couple of areas to watch out for: a) pay your taxes and b) some of you are flirting with areas covered by securities law with some of the innovative things happening.

These are areas the system can use against you, not you against the system 
17/ And as always, don't let the institutions steal your JPGs



1/ On JPGs

99.999999% of the world either does not know about our JPGs or, if they do, are making fun of us.

What could possibly be important about a JPG, a silly meme?

This must be a mania, a bubble

They are wrong because memes are the most important thing in the world 
2/ In his book Sapiens, @harari_yuval split human experience into:

a) the objective/mutual/visible: It is raining
b) the subjective/individual/invisible: I feel great
c) the intersubjective/mutual/invisible: "Imaginary" things that we mutually believe in 
3/ His thesis is that the intersubjective is the most important factor in human development because it allows large numbers of people to cooperate.

Most theorists believe that pre-societal humans (and other great apes) can cooperate with up to 150 people 
4/ This limitation seems ballpark correct and is somehow physics and biologically based.

Our brains can't spend enough time with enough people to coordinate and synchronize with more than about 150 to 200 
5/ So how did humans break out of small tribes to come to rule the world?

"Myths"

Abstract stories that progressively larger groups of people can believe in (the intersubjective)

Think of these as scaling technology for the human brain 
6/ Some myths will seem obvious to modern eyes:

- The gods of Mt Olympus
- All powerful kings, emperors and royalty
- Organized religion 
7/ But myths did not stop in the Middle Ages. They are all around us today:

- Democracy
- Human Rights
- The Land of the Free and the Home of the Brave
- Family values
- Tolerance

These are some of our most powerful modern myths 
8/ The myths don't stop at the national or global level, they are everywhere

The idea of a company, a church, a university, a non-profit, all of these are a myth

The idea of Goldman Sachs, of Nike, of the Ohio State University, these are all a myth 
9/ What do you mean 6529, Goldman Sachs exists?

One of the best parts of Sapiens is where it asks "Where is the car company Peugeot?"

Is it the plants, the shareholders, the employees, the logo, the CEO, the directors?

No, all of these can and do change over time 
10 / The joint stock company (or companies as we know them) are just as imaginary as your kid's imaginary play friend.

It is a mutually agreed convention that if you take certain steps with a special priest (corporate registrar), then we all agree to pretend Peugeot exists 
11/ This is the Ohio State University stadium with a capacity of 104,944, mostly grown adults, watching 18-22 year-olds play, literally, a child's game

Are they there because OSU has buildings and desks and chalkboards or because of the myth of the OSU Buckeyes?

12/ At this point you might think I am negative on "myths"

I am not.

They are literally the most important thing in the world.

Everything else - politics, economics, finance, business, family life - is downstream from what myths your society believes in 
13/ These two, very different but very effective, myths, for example, allowed two men to become, in their time, the most powerful man in the world


14/ Politics not your thing? Let's talk about Nike, with $44B of annual revenue.

Nike's core competency is myth building.

How does that simple little "swoosh" make you feel?

Makes Chromie Squiggles look complex, but it drives nearly half a trillion of revenue/decade

16/ Michael Jordan is a human being, a great basketball player but also a myth.

I bet a significant percentage of our dear readers have owned, at some point, Air Jordans.

I have lost count of how many I have gone through. 
17/ What are $200 Jordans?

- A shoe +
- A distribution network to get it to you +
- An unlimited open edition Michael Jordan NFT

18/ Again, there is nothing wrong with myths.

Michael Jordan, the myth, represents generalized excellence in sports and, specifically, in basketball.

I bet people play more basketball and aim higher with MJs on their feet than a generic brand.

That is the myth at work 
19/ Back to crypto

Bitcoin has done an extraordinary job at building "myth"

- Decentralized
- Digital Gold
- HODL

Are all necessary myths for BTC to have succeeded and then to actually become those things.

There is a bit of "fake it, till you make it" here 
20/ Back to our JPGs

My view: NFTs are the fastest, most scalable, most potent layer ever built to finance and transport "art" and "memes"

"art" and "memes" are respectively fancy and fun ways to say "myths" 
21/ Our NFT myths are currently under, broadly, decentralized control.

There is an opportunity to take them, shape them, refine them and use them to change the world.

We have gotten lucky. This is a tool that can go global, go retail. 
22/ This is why I worry about the "institutions".

They are master myth builders, they will figure out this technology and they will come for it.

And if we are not careful, it will be used to further the same goals as today 
23/ This thread is too long already, so "what we should do" is for another time.

For now, don't let the institutions steal your JPGs

 
24/ Bonus tweet - don't let anyone shame you for enjoying your JPGs

Mr "I would never put a BAYC in my avatar because I am an independent thinker and don't believe in brands" is either:

- coping or
- completely lacking in self-awareness

(cont...) 
25/ That same guy has:
- Filled his fridge, his closet and house
- Picked his school/profession/employer
- Organized his personal/family life

Based on the myths someone else has made for him, as *have all of us*

At least here we may pick our myths 


1/ First let me say I am incredibly honored to have the opportunity to have this UNBELIEVABLE @ix_shells piece join the 6529 collection

Her work is amazing and her journey is limitless

2/ How did this start for me? A few weeks ago, another incredible piece from @ix_shells - Pluteus had gone to auction

I was shocked by the piece and thought it was one of the most distinctive and balanced pieces I had seen this year

chainsaw.fun/asset/pluteus
3/ I think though at the same time, the @dmitricherniak auction was happening and since I apparently can't walk and chew bubble gum at the same time, I lost track of Pluteus and some other lucky collector won the auction. 
4/ A few days ago, the world was very lucky that Willow Shield, another piece from that same family, was minted.

This time, I knew what I had to do.

Willow Shield looks great on a computer but would look great as the side of a skyscraper too. 
5/ This is epic art and well-deserving of a spot in the very small, but I think very nice, 6529 SuperRare collection and more broadly in the 6529 family


So looking forward to seeing where @ix_shells goes next

 



1/ The optimal collecting strategy if you r a large collector and believe in an artist who is now entering the main stage is not "buy all the pieces" IMHO

I think it is much better for the artist for many collectors to start feeling a sense of community with the pieces/artist 
2/ I have restrained multiple times from 'buying all the low priced pieces' from an artist I am intrigued by.

I feel would be a disservice to the artist and to the art to do that (and, long-term to collectors who succeed if the artists succeed) 
3/ I think most/all of the top collectors pursue a similar-ish strategy now.

There is probably however a way we can think about this more structurally -- in other words about how we can think about helping great artists with discovery and community

 
4/ At extreme levels it is directly counterproductive to the artist and collector.

If I see that an artist is over-collected by one collector, I worry about entering a market where someone else is the market-maker. 
5/ There are a couple of pockets within very high prestige areas of the NFT space where there is, IMHO, over-concentration.

Nobody talks about it publicly / noticed.

But it is better for the mega holders to start making a market, rather than trying to HODL everything IMHO 

1 / First draft thoughts on what is different about NFTs from an "institutions are coming" perspective

CryptoTwitter front-run the institutions badly in BTC and in ETH, but in the end, +/- the institutions "won" to some degree.

BTC and ETH remain an enormous achievement but.. 
2/ A huge amount of BTC and ETH is now locked up in centralized vehicles - CEXs, custodians, fund-like structures and this will only get "worse"

That has two 'bad' parts -> first, it hurts decentralization, second, bigger late adopters picked up more gains than early adopters 
3/ In other words, Anthony Scaramucci was quite late to BTC (2020 if I am not mistaken) but because he has institutional leverage, he was able to gather significant assets under management and effectively has a larger position in BTC that most people who got it 5-8 yrs earlier 
4/ What is different with NFTs?

One thing that is different is that some of us crypto-native are not broke like we were in, say, 2013.

This allows to take more ambitious bets and some of has have more staying power.

This is not specific to NFTs - also true in DeFi 
5/ The bigger difference is the non-fungibility.

Any small holder of BTC could do nothing about the market selling to Scaramucci.

It is a fungible anonymous global market that trades at the margin.

So is UNI, but punks are NOT 
6/ NFTs are built different.

There are 18 hoodie nerd glasses punks or 20 squiggles perfect spectrum that will eventually mostly end up in diamond hands over the next months/years as we play some musical chairs and shuffle things around 
7/ That means that when the Scaramucci of 2028 shows up with a $400M fund to buy hoodie nerd glass punks or squiggles or whatever, at least at the elite level, the sellers can just say "no"

Not "at a high price", but simply "no, we are going to control these and their culture" 
8/ And because of the non-fungibility, there is no necessarily 'weak hand' at the table that will sell.

I think this is a fundamentally different dynamic regarding how this market will trade.

Mostly misunderstood so far. 
9/ But 6529, why does it matter, aren't you creating a new elite? Maybe, to some degree you are, that is true.

But it is a crypto-native elite, with different values, different goals, different objectives on the whole.

We have a chance to make the decentralized dream true 
10/ This message is not for most of you.

I "read" between the lines that a lot of people new to crypto are in NFT twitter.

For you, the first priority should be to secure your IRL life - your house, your fam, your nest egg. 
11/ The faster you can firewall your IRL spending from your crypto speculation (and it IS speculation), the more fun you will have here in NFT-land.

We will have winters and dry spells - you don't want that to impact your rent, dinner, tuition, whatever

Only then is it 100% fun 
12/ So for those who are in the process of making it, sell when the offer makes sense to you and *never look back* on that piece.

Don't feel any shame, concern or guilt.

Practically nobody is a 100% HODLer from origin BTC days.

HODL is a useful meme, not absolute reality 
13/ The fight with the institutions needs to be led by the 2nd and 3rd gen crypto folks.

I am looking at ya'll @punk4156 @gmoneyNFT @2Yeahyeah @seedphrase @krybharat @batsoupyum @iamDCinvestor @Anonymoux2311 and more like us 
14/ I think our goal should be to ultimately change society, not just sell our tokens to the institutions at a higher price.

tl;dr

Don't let the institutions steal your JPGs
 
15/ That is what I am talking about


16/ Also this


17/ This is why I am trying to get our co-travelers in BTC / ETH over line on NFTs.

I would 100x prefer a grail piece ends up in say @CryptoCobain's crypto-native hands than with the institutions.

We're getting there - @Cryptopathic and @loomdart are leading - its gonna happen 
18/ @XCOPYART is one of the artists I was thinking about as I wrote this thread. His art is more than art, but a memetic lever to change the world.

That will be the subject of a different thread, on another day


19/ Excellent point. The 'new thing' is that NFTs can move in the digital world, in a way that TradArt cannot


20/ @loomdart gets it. This is the way.

This is our chance and we need all hands on deck, so the rest of crypto twitter needs to stop the ridiculous cope about "tops" and "jpgs" and get with the program


21/ @ricgalbraith is right. That is why we need to still our hearts now.




@mentions
22/ I keep forgetting this, but we need to recruit @balajis to this team

He has the god's-eye view of this topic, but I am not sure he has realized that NFTs are going to be the way 


I am not sure people fully appreciate how important @artblocks_io was and is in establishing a market structure, market price for generative art NFTs.

If we had gone from Glyphs to 'random' projects, generative art would not have made it as it did.

Photography NFTs need this 
I am obviously a sortof significant NFT collector. I have some background in photography and confident in the field

The reason I'm not aping into photography NFTs is discoverability, market structure, liquidity etc.

So for now, the pieces I buy, I mark to 0 in my internal book 
There is one good example to-date - @justinaversano who may have invented the collection structure for the entry point for a photographer (50-100 around the theme) which is good starting point.

But the 'clone' Twin Flames projects are still all over the place, disconnected. 
Obviously of course there are some world famous photographers who will mint 1/1 NFTs and they will sell for a lot of ETH.

That is not the point here - the point is how to help the unknown incredible photographers build a collector base

 


World: Crypto has no real-world impact
NFTs: We fund artists to make great art in real-world
World: No, we don't like that either 
I mean seriously, what more wholesome thing could crypto do than to fund an explosion of *publicly accessible art*

Crypto: Funds an open-source globally accessible art museum

World: Scam! I hope you lose all your money! Your art sucks! 
My understanding is that if someone lends $100M of art to the MOMA, they get their names written on the wall, canapes and champagne, not "ha ha ha sucker, you lose bigtime now that anyone can see your art without even paying" 
Alpha leak: When many people who you have never spoken to at all are very very upset with your new idea for [waves hands, reasons], you are probably GMI.

The actual failure case is "nobody cares"

 

1/ For the last few weeks, I have been asking for advice regarding @XCOPYART 1/1s.

I want to thank @krybharat @Anonymoux2311 @OSFCollections who were incredibly generous and helpful with their time in guiding me with tips and ideas 
2/ Though we do not know each IRL, they treated me as a friend on a quest with them, not as a competitor.

I also would like to thank @2Yeahyeah and @KeyboardMonkey3 for their moral support during the auction. 
3/ And while not relating to this specific piece, @VonMises14 has been the guru-of-gurus on @artblocks_io matters and @ac_collecting has also provided tremendous insight 
4/ You might not realize this, NFT-fam, but you are living in a special time in the field, like early BTC, where everyone more or less knows each other and is on a common journey on Twitter

Cherish this time, because I think it will end soon 
5/ I am not 100% sure, but I think the NFT field is going to teleport soon.

There will be good things about that - adoption, higher prices (for some pieces), some of you will become rich, all of you will have your thesis validated. 
6/ But something will be also be lost. The field will become bigger, colder, more anonymous, more "professional"

There is no going back in life, only moving forward and this future will be GOOD.

But also cherish what you have now, while you have it

 

1/ Non-ironic tweetstorm

NFTs are the first useful framework for analyzing meme coins

They are 1/[XXX,XXX,XXX,XXX] open edition low-effort NFTs and can be analyzed as such 
2/ This makes infinity more sense as a way to think about them than any other lens such as 'financial lens' or 'utility lens' or, nuttiest of all, 'but moar transactions per second' lens. 
3/ It also explains why Elon can pump Doge.

If Elon said "I love MoonCats, I own MoonCats, Mooncats to the Moon, etc" some of his world-class cultural clout would rub off on Mooncats 
4/ But it also tells us where the future lies.

If someone tried to launch an NFT project with the art effort and token economics of a memecoin, they would be laughed out of the room 
5/ tl;dr NFTs are a vastly superior form of memecoins.*

Prediction: No major new memecoin will emerge in the era of NFTs. (Doge etc are already Lindy to some degree)

* they are more than that, but that is not for today 
6/ [send tweet] -> look forward to reading about this from @matt_levine soon 
7/ NFTs are many things. Memecoins are one small thing, a subset of NFTs





Some Basics

What are The Memes?

The Memes are art-oriented editions, created by many wonderful artists, whose organizing principle is that they are focused on spreading the message of decentralization

Where do I find out about new The Memes mints?

Follow https://twitter.com/6529collections

Where can I follow a high volume feed on decentralization, art and why NFTs are the key to a decentralized digital future?

Follow https://twitter.com/punk6529

For endless tweetstorms about why NFTs are important to decentralization, see his pinned tweet:

https://twitter.com/punk6529/status/1448399827054833668?s=20&t=V5rVRg9MgOod_KPzQIBOKw

What type of NFTs are The Memes?

The Memes are ERC-1155 NFTs minted on the Ethereum blockchain.

How large are the edition sizes of The Memes?

The only sure thing about The Memes edition size is that Meme Card #4 (Nakamoto Freedom) is the smallest edition size at 300, in homage to the first Rare Pepe (Nakamoto Pepe), that is also an edition of 300.

Edition sizes for the rest vary based on the vibes of the team and the artist, more or less. Most editions to date have been between 300 and 1,000 in size.

Where do The Memes collectors gather?

Mostly in the OM Discord. Warning, it can get chaotic!

https://discord.gg/join-om

What is the point of The Memes?

The overall mission of The Memes is to encapsulate pro-decentralization messages into striking or memeable or viral or haunting images.

While tweetstorms and podcasts and university courses are helpful ways to spread these messages, the apex objects in society are not academic or technical in nature.

The apex objects are artistic, social or cultural, and a well-designed meme is much more impactful than any tweetstorm.

"Yes We Can" and "Make American Great Again" were simple but immensely powerful memes that gave their creators the US Presidency.

Consider The Memes to be an ongoing in-field experiment to find the best memes to communicate the positive benefits of our digital architecture in the future being decentralized, pro-social and based on a public commons.

Do you really think The Memes can make a difference on this important and difficult topic?

Yes. Not every meme will spread, but given the diversity in artistic approaches, eventually one, or more, will spread very far.

Are there any other goals for The Memes?

Spreading decentralization-oriented messages is the primary goal. Nice secondary effects of The Memes include:

a) Introducing collectors to a wide range of artists
b) Giving some less well-known artists the opportunity to share their work with a larger collector base
c) Releasing art into the public domain
d) Learning and sharing findings about how to run mints without high gas costs and other negative effects
e) Releasing open-source data and tools for others to use

What is your success metric?

That the ideas expressed in The Memes take hold in NFT, then crypto, then broader culture, whether expressed via The Memes collectors, Meme Lab collectors, ReMemers or otherwise.

For example, "Freedom To Transact" has started to take hold as a useful concept and shorthand among people in our community and beyond.

Our tools/metrics to measure the spread of these concepts today are still rudimentary and we need to refine them.

What are the SZNs?

The SZNs are the seasons of The Memes. The Genesis SZN1 was in 2022. We expect to run 4 SZNs in 2023.

We think that SZNs give a sense of structure and cadence to The Memes.

The calendar for 2023 is here: seize.io/about/memes-calendar

How many SZNs will The Memes run?

As long as The Memes are having a positive impact and the collection is fun. We hope this will be for a long time and that our alien or AI overlords don't end the fun.

"Have fun changing the world with art" sounds like a good way to think about it.

Who are the set collectors?

Collectors who are trying to collect either: 1 of each meme from a particular SZN (like SZN1 or SZN2), or one of each meme from the whole collection, or the 3 Genesis memes, or thematic sub-sets.

We salute their commitment to The Memes, though obviously we recognize that set collectors will always be a very small fraction of the overall collector base.

What are the various "Holidays" in the Memes Calendar?

We hope that people will use them as a natural attention gathering point to do interesting things with community ReMemes, with community projects, with new announcements, or just to take a break.

Buying The Memes

How much do The Memes cost?

The usual mint price ("primary" price) to date has been: 0.06529ETH.

Sometimes we give away The Memes for free ("airdrops").

What is the minting site for The Memes?

https://thememes.6529.io

What is an allowlist?

We usually (but not always) manage demand for The Memes by limiting primary minting to existing collectors or the collectors of the collaborating artist.

Please read about the process in detail here: seize.io/about/minting

How do I buy The Memes if I have not minted?

You can buy them on various NFT marketplaces.

This is the link to the collection on OpenSea
https://opensea.io/collection/thememes6529

These are called "secondary market sales"

What is a good price to buy The Memes on the secondary market?

We do not know.

The price of NFTs in the secondary market tends to be very volatile. Long-term value is highly uncertain and dependent on many factors, in particular, consumer demand for The Memes.

Like all art and all NFTs, our recommendation is to only buy The Memes that you like, at a price that you can easily afford, with no expectation of a financial return.

I would like to have a SZN2 Meme, but they are too expensive

We expect to offer a large/open edition at some point during SZN2 and, generally, every SZN.

The Memes are too expensive for me to buy.

The Memes are CC0 (Creative Commons 0) or, in other words, in the public domain.

If you like the art of The Memes, feel free to use it in any way you like for free. You can save it to your computer, print it for your home, mint it as an NFT yourself or make derivative works.

The details of the license are here: seize.io/about/license

What am I buying when I buy an NFT with CC0 art?

This is a great question.

In our view, a sense of identity and provenance with the artist and the art. The primary minters are paying the artists to release the work into the public domain.

The tokens reflect that provenance. If this is appealing to you, if this matches some sense of identity of yours, if you take value in the ownership of such art, then you may consider buying an NFT from The Memes collection.

If not, it is ok, you can just take the art.

Do I receive IP rights by owning a NFT from The Memes?

No. You have the same rights (or lack thereof) as anyone else in the world. The Memes are in the public domain.

Note that most art from the 19th century and earlier is also in the public domain.

I cannot collect all The Memes.

It is fine and normal. None of us can collect all the NFTs out there. Just buy what you like, what you can afford, without any expectations of a financial return. We do not want anyone to stress themselves about The Memes.

I need to sell my Memes for (whatever reason).

It is fine and normal. We do not want anyone to stress themselves about The Memes.

Why doesn't punk6529 tweet bullish tweets so the price goes up?

hi, me here, punk6529. I have never tweeted about the price of any NFT and am certainly not going to start now. I do not think the price of NFTs is what is particularly interesting about them vs the fact that they are decentralized databases of digital objects that could be foundational technology for the metaverse.

What are your views on gm?

gm

Utility

What does "utility" mean?

In the NFT field, many projects promise "utility".

This utility could be a blockchain game, a party, a conference, clothing and merchandise and so on.

What utility do the Memes offer or plan to offer?

None.

When you mint a Meme Card, you have, at the point, the final product - an art edition NFT.

Neither we, nor the artist, make any commitments to you that we will take any further actions to make the NFT more exciting or valuable. We think The Memes are exciting and fun just the way they are.

"The art is the utility" is a phrase that people sometimes use to describe this concept.

This is how art traditionally works. If you buy an Andy Warhol print from a gallery in SoHo, you are happy to own an Andy Warhol print. You have no expectation that the gallery will also send you a hoodie or build you an Andy Warhol video game.

Why do you not offer utility?

The purpose of The Memes is to make provocative CC0 art that can stimulate social change in favor of decentralization.

There are many other NFT collections that offer NFTs with (supposed) "utility", mostly in the PFP field - if that is something that you are looking for, those collections may be a better fit for you.

Wouldn't it be nice of The Memes had coffee mugs, hoodies and parties?

We would happily drink coffee in a The Memes coffee mug.

Given that The Memes are CC0, we assume that, if there is market demand for The Memes coffee mugs, a specialist in coffee mug making will eventually produce The Memes coffee mugs and we can buy one if we like.

We are not specialists in coffee mug making and do not want to become specialists in coffee mug making.

Anything else on this topic?

Ask not what The Memes will do for you, but what you will do for decentralization.

ReMemes

What are ReMemes?

ReMemes are community-driven derivatives of The Memes. In the long run, we believe ReMemes will be more important than The Memes in spreading the message of decentralization.

Who can make a ReMeme?

Anyone! You do not need approval from anyone.

How can I find the ReMemes?

There is no great solution yet. The best place is the #rememes channel in the OM Discord.

We are all brainstorming ideas on how to make the ReMemes more discoverable.

Meme Lab

What Is the Meme Lab?

The Meme Lab is an experimental CC0 contract for artists who have already minted a Meme Card. They can use the Meme Lab contract to mint NFTs that they like, in any way that they like.

What else can you tell us about the Meme Lab?

Not much yet, it is very new, very experimental. We will learn more in the next 6 months about how artists plan to use it and what happens.

We hope to see some successes, and certainly expect there will be some failures too.


How do The Memes, the Meme Labs and the ReMemes interact?

The Memes artists are invited to mint on The Memes contract. @punk6529 , @6529er other team members, and community members recommend interesting established and emerging NFT artists for The Memes. There is a somewhat predictable cadence to the pace of new Meme Cards, and to the edition size.

The Meme Lab is an experimental "playground" for artists who have already dropped a Meme Card. It is one ERC-1155 contract but there is no particular pattern to who mints what when, at least so far.

The ReMemes are completely community driven. They are based on many independent ERC-721 and ERC-1155 contracts by individual artists or collectives.

Gradients

What relationship does the 6529 Gradient collection have with The Memes?

There is no direct relationship.

The 6529 Gradient collection was a prior collection that was completely conceptual in nature. It is 101 grayscale variations of the 6529 logo.

Why are Gradient collectors included in The Memes allowlists?

We believe the Gradient collectors are also strong believers in the decentralization mission and so we are happy to have them along with us in this fight.

Other

What is the purpose of the 10% of The Memes displayed in the 6529 Museum?

We do not know yet. It is totally open at this stage. We are collectors too.

The closest analogy for how we view them is that it is a form of "insurance policy" for us in case interesting decentralized emergent uses of The Memes are developed in the community and we want to participate or enable others to participate.

We may hold them, sell them, donate them, let other people use them or do nothing at all with them.

What is the economic arrangement with The Memes artists?

Primary revenue and secondary royalties are split 50:50 between the artists and The Memes.

What are the economic arrangements of the Meme Lab?

They are determined solely at the artist's discretion.

Why aren't The Meme cards set up as a DAO?

A DAO used to mean a "Decentralized Autonomous Organization" or, what we call today, a "smart contract".

In the NFT field, DAOs are usually not decentralized nor autonomous.

The term is often used to describe arrangements where token holders of an NFT somehow have collective assets/treasuries. We have a variety of concerns about some of these arrangements.

The Memes model is much simpler. We help artists sell NFTs on primary like any normal sale of art, at which point the collectors have full independence from us and each other. The token is on the Ethereum blockchain, the art is hosted on Arweave and the art is CC0.